AI Overview
    Foreword

     ⚫     Artificial intelligence (AI) is driving progress and industrial upgrades at an
           unprecedented speed. As a field of research in human intelligence simulation, AI has
           not only profoundly changed our lifestyles but has also showcased its immense value
           across various fields such as research, industrial production, healthcare, financial
           services, and education and entertainment.
     ⚫     This section describes the history, key technologies, and applications of AI in various
           fields. It provides insights into the application fields and future of AI technologies
           based on their definition and scope.


2   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
    Objectives

     ⚫      Upon completing this course, you will be able to understand:
                  Basic AI concepts
                  AI technologies and their history
                  AI applications in various technologies and fields
                  Future AI trends




3   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
    Contents

     1. AI Overview

     2. AI Technologies

     3. Overview of DeepSeek and Its Influence on AI Development

     4. AI Applications

     5. Debates and Future of AI




4   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
    AI in the Eyes of Researchers
    "I propose to consider the question, 'Can machines think?’”

                                                                                  -- Alan Turing in 1950

    Make machines behave like humans.

                                                                              -- John McCarthy in 1956

    "Artificial intelligence is the science of making machines do things that would require intelligence
    if done by men."

                                                                                      -- Marvin Minsky




     5   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




•   "The branch of computer science concerned with making computers behave like humans."
    -- A widespread early definition of AI proposed by John McCarthy at the Dartmouth
    Conference in 1956. However, it seems that this definition ignores the possibility of strong
    AI. According to another definition, AI is the intelligence (weak AI) demonstrated by
    artificial machines.

•   Alan Turing discussed the question "Can machines think" in his paper Computing Machinery
    and Intelligence.
  What Is Intelligence?
  ⚫       Professor Howard Gardner proposed the theory of multi-intelligence, and listed eight
          capabilities that reflect multi-intelligence:
               Verbal/Linguistic
               Logical/Mathematical
               Visual/Spatial
               Bodily/Kinesthetic
               Musical/Rhythmic
               Inter-personal/Social
               Intra-personal/Introspective
               Naturalist
      6       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Gardner, American educator and psychologist

• 1. Linguistic intelligence

It refers to the ability to express thoughts and understand others orally and literally, to grasp
speeches, semantics, and grammars masterly, and to think in words, express in words, and
appreciate the deep meaning of languages. They are competent for jobs such as political
activists, presenters, lawyers, speakers, editors, writers, journalists, and teachers.

• 2. Logical-mathematical intelligence

It refers to the ability to calculate, measure, infer, conclude, classify, and carry out complex
mathematical operations. This type of intelligence possesses sensitivity to logical means and
relationships, statements and propositions, functions, and other related abstract concepts.
They are competent for jobs such as scientists, accountants, statisticians, engineers, and
computer software R&D personnel.

• 3. Spatial intelligence

It refers to the ability to accurately perceive the visual space and surroundings and present the
perception in the form of graphics. This type of intelligence possesses sensitivity to colors,
lines, shapes, forms, and spatial relationships. They are competent for jobs such as interior
designers, architects, photographers, painters, and pilots.

• 4. Bodily-kinesthetic intelligence

It refers to the ability to express thoughts and feelings with the body and to make or operate
objects with hands. This type of intelligence possesses special physical skills such as balance,
coordination, agility, strength, flexibility and speed, and abilities triggered by tactile sensation.
They are component for jobs such as athletes, actors, dancers, surgeons, jewellers, and
mechanics.
  What Is AI?
  ⚫       Artificial intelligence can be interpreted as "artificial" plus "intelligence". "Artificial" means being designed, created,
          and made by humans. "Intelligence" means thinking and behaving like humans.
  ⚫       Artificial intelligence is a new technical science that deals with the research and development of theories, methods,
          techniques, and application systems for simulating and extending human intelligence. In 1956, the term "Artificial
          intelligence" was first coined by John McCarthy, who defined it as "the science and engineering of making intelligent
          machines." The purpose of AI is to make machines intelligent and give them human thoughts.
  ⚫       AI has become an interdisciplinary subject that overlaps with various fields.




      7     Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Machine learning can be understood from multiple aspects. Tom Mitchell, known as the
  "godfather of global machine learning", defined machine learning as: For a task T and
  performance metric P, if the performance of a computer program measured by P on T self-
  improves with experience E, the computer program is learning from experience E. These
  definitions are simple and abstract. However, as we deepen our understanding of machine
  learning, we will find that the connotation and extension of machine learning are changing
  over time. Because a variety of fields and applications are involved and machine learning
  develops rapidly, it is not easy to define machine learning simply and clearly.
Relationships Among AI, Machine Learning, and Deep Learning (1)

                                                                             Area of
                                                                            research


                                                                             Way to
                                                                           implement


                                                                            Current
                                                                           mainstream




                                                                         Many schools of
                                                                      thought have emerged
                                                                            during the
                                                                        development of AI.


 8   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Relationships Among AI, Machine Learning, and Deep Learning (2)
  ⚫       AI is a new technical science that studies and develops theories, methods, techniques, and
          application systems to simulate and extend human intelligence.
  ⚫       Machine learning is the study of how computers simulate or replicate human learning
          processes to acquire new knowledge or skills and restructure existing knowledge for continuous
          performance improvement.
  ⚫       Deep learning is a concept that originates from the research of artificial neural networks. It is
          an ongoing field of machine learning research that mimics the human brain's mechanism to
          interpret data.




      9     Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• The term "artificial intelligence" was previously used to describe machines that imitate and
  demonstrate "human" cognitive skill related to human thinking.

• A machine learning algorithm mainly builds a model based on sample data (referred to as
  trained data), so that prediction or decision-making can be made without explicit
  programming.

• Deep learning is a type of machine learning, and machine learning is a one and only path for
  implementing artificial intelligence. The concept of deep learning originates from the study
  of artificial neural networks. A multi-layer perceptron containing multiple hidden layers is a
  deep learning structure. Deep learning uses higher level features derived from the lower
  level features to form a hierarchical representation. The motivation of deep learning
   research is to establish a neural network that simulates the human brain for analysis and
   learning. The neural network simulates the mechanism of the human brain to interpret
   data, such as images, sounds, and texts.
  Major Schools of AI - Symbolism
  ⚫    Symbolism is also called Logicism, Psychologism, or Computerism.
  ⚫    Symbolism believes that AI is built upon mathematical logic. Followers of this school of thought
       believe that symbols are the cognitive primitives of humans, and the human cognition process
       is based on inferring and calculating a variety of symbols. In their opinion, both humans and
       computers use physical symbol systems, so computers can be used to simulate the intelligent
       behavior of humans.
                                                                            Apple in the eyes of symbolism




      10   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• After 1956, symbolism developed heuristic algorithms, expert systems, and knowledge
  engineering theories and technologies, and made significant progress in the 1980s.

• The successful launch and application of the expert system is of great significance for
  leading AI to engineering application and linking AI theory with practice.

• After other AI schools emerged, symbolism is still a mainstream of AI.
  Major Schools of AI - Connectionism
  ⚫    Connectionism is also called Bionicsism or Physiologism.
  ⚫    Connectionism believes that AI originates from bionics, particularly the research on human
       brain models. The primitives of human thinking are neurons, rather than symbolic processes.
       Researchers in this school of thought began by looking at neurons and then neural network
       models and brain models. This has successfully opened another path to artificial intelligence.




      11   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Units in a network can represent neurons, and connections can represent synapses, just as
  in the human brain.

• In 1986, Rumelhart et al. proposed a backpropagation (BP) algorithm in a multi-layer
  network. Since then, connectionism has gradually emerged, from models to algorithms, and
  from theoretical analysis to engineering implementation.
  Major Schools of AI - Behaviorism
  ⚫    Behaviorism is also called Evolutionism or Cyberneticsism.
  ⚫    Behaviorism believes that AI originates from cybernetics. In this school of thought, intelligence
       depends on perception and action; and knowledge, representation, and inference are not
       involved. AI can evolve like human intelligence. Intelligent behavior can only be manifested
       through interaction with surrounding environments in the real world.




      12   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Behaviorism concerns more about application practices and how to learn from the
  environment continuously to make corrections.

• School masterpiece: Brooks' hexapod walking robot, a control system that simulates insect
  behavior based on the perception-action pattern.

• This school is a somewhat similar to an adaptive control system, which collects data using
  sensors (environments) and acts on the system.
Three Elements for AI Development
                                                                                                               Data center, distributed
           Independent of the school of thought,                                                               computing, cloud
                                                                                                               computing, edge
           AI research needs three key elements.                                                               computing, and high-
                                                                                                               performance computing
                                                                                                               (HPC)

                                                                              Computing power
                                                                            The engine of AI and the driving
                                                                            force behind AI systems




                                                                             Data                   Algorithms
                                                                       The powerhouse of      The brain of AI and
                                                                        AI and the fuel for   the command center
                                                                            AI systems        of AI systems
                              Data mining, data analysis,                                                                          Machine learning (ML),
                              data warehouse, data                                                                                 deep learning (DL), natural
                              visualization, data                                                                                  language processing (NLP),
                              security, and privacy                                                                                computer vision (CV), and
                              protection                                                                                           recommendation system


 13   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
AI Industry Ecosystem




 14   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Types of AI
  ⚫    Strong AI
                The strong AI theory is that it is possible to create intelligent machines capable of reasoning and
                 problem solving, and that such machines will be self-aware. They will be able to think independently
                 and develop the best solution to a problem. In addition, such machines will have their own values
                 and worldview, as well as the instincts of living things, such as the need for survival and safety. In a
                 sense, the machine with human thoughts can be regarded as a new civilization.

  ⚫    Weak AI
                The weak AI theory holds that it is impossible to create an intelligent machine capable of reasoning
                 and problem solving. Such a machine only looks intelligent but does not have human intelligence or
                 self-awareness.


      15       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• An important indicator of AI is to achieve a superhuman level in challenging fields through
  self-learning without any prior knowledge.

• Strong AI refers to AI that can compete with humans in all aspects. Therefore, strong AI is
  not limited to a specified field, but makes robots comparable to humans in all aspects.
  Strong AI can think, plan, solve problems, abstract thinking, understand complex concepts,
  quickly learn, and learn from experience. Currently, it is believed that if the human brain
  can be simulated and all neurons and synapses in the human brain can be imitated on the
  same scale, strong AI will naturally occur.

• Now we are in the weak AI phase. Weak AI alleviates human intellectual labor, similar to
  advanced bionics. AI outperforms humans only in some aspects.
     Contents

      1.       AI Overview
      2.       AI Technologies
              ◼     AI Technologies
                   NLP
                   CV
                   Foundation Model

      3.       Overview of DeepSeek and Its Influence on AI Development
      4.       AI Applications
      5.       Debates and Future of AI



16   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Overview of AI Technologies & Application Fields




 17   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Popular AI Subfields




 18   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Distribution of AI Applications
⚫    AI is commonly applied in the following technical fields:
              Computer vision
                  ◼    How can we enable computers to "see" and "see" faster and more accurately?

              Natural language processing
                  ◼    How can we enable computers to understand and use natural languages?

              Multimodal
              Other




    19       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1.       AI Overview
      2.       AI Technologies
                   AI Technologies
              ◼     NLP
                   CV
                   Foundation Model

      3.       Overview of DeepSeek and Its Influence on AI Development
      4.       AI Applications
      5.       Debates and Future of AI



20   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Natural Language Processing
⚫    Natural language processing (NLP) is a branch of computer science and artificial intelligence. It studies
     theories and methods for implementing effective communication between humans and computers
     through natural languages. NLP is intended to enable computers to understand and generate human
     languages.
              Development: (1) Rules and linguistic theories; (2) Machine learning and deep learning; (3) Large language
               models (LLMs)
⚫    Applications:
              Sentiment analysis
              Text mining
              Machine translation
              Chatbots
              Other


    21       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
AI Applications in NLP

                         Text classification                                                     Machine translation
      Automatically classifies text into preset                                                 Automatically converts a language into
 categories by using algorithms, and analyzes                                                   another language (for example, Chinese to
         text features to manage information                                                    English, or French to Japanese) using
     efficiently and support precise decision-                                                  algorithm models.
                                       making.


              Text summarization                                        AI applications                     Smart writing
  Automatically extracts core information                                   in NLP                 Assists in generating high-quality text,
  from text and generates a more concise                                                           such as news releases and advertising
      version while retaining the original                                                         copies, improving content creation
 semantic associations and key elements.                                                           efficiency.



                 Information extraction                                                               ...
  Automatically extracts key information, such as                                         ...
    entities and relationships, from massive text
     data to support data analytics and decision-
                                         making.


 22    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
NLP Task - Text Classification
⚫    Definition
              Input:
                                                                              I wasn't happy to hear about a price cut a few days after this
                  ◼    An article 𝑑                                           purchase. The flash memory score is just over 500 points.
                  ◼    Fixed category set 𝐶 = {𝐶1 , 𝐶2 , … , 𝐶𝑗 }
                                                                              Pleasing appearance and amazing sound. Now, most
              Output:
                                                                              electronic products are made by Huawei.
                  ◼    Predicted category for the article 𝑐 ∈ 𝐶




    23       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  NLP Task - Sequence Labeling
  ⚫    Sequence labeling is using a model to Huawei                                           is   a technology company located in Shenzhen, China.

       label each position of a given input
       sequence                      (usually                  a            sentence,                     Part-of-speech tagging

       character, or word in text) to form a
       label sequence. This process may be                                                                     n/v/DET/n/n/v/p/n/w/n/w


       viewed                 as          sequence-to-sequence
       mapping.                                                                                          Named Entity Recognition


                                                                                        ORG   O      O     O        O       O      O     LOC   LOC




      24   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• DET represents determiner, n represents noun, v represents verb, p represents preposition,
  and w represents punctuation.
NLP Task - Text Generation
⚫    Text generation is a process in which an algorithm automatically generates grammatically sound and
     meaningful text content.
⚫    This technology can simulate the human writing process and generate various types of text, such as news
     reports, emails, articles, social media posts, poems, novel chapters, and machine translations.




    25   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Knowledge Graph
⚫    A knowledge graph is a graphical data model used to represent and organize structured information. It represents
     entities (such as people, places, and things) in the real world and their relationships (such as friendships and
     affiliations) in the form of graphs to construct a large-scale, multi-domain knowledge base.
⚫    NLP provides the means to build a knowledge graph. NLP helps extract information (such as entities, relationships,
     and attributes) from text to build and enrich knowledge graphs.




    26   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1.       AI Overview
      2.       AI Technologies
                   AI Technologies
                   NLP
              ◼     CV
                   Foundation Model

      3.       Overview of DeepSeek and Its Influence on AI Development
      4.       AI Applications
      5.       Debates and Future of AI



27   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Computer Vision
⚫        Computer Vision (CV) is a technology that uses computers and algorithms to simulate the
     process of human vision. It involves extracting information from images or videos, analyzing
     and comprehending content, and making decisions accordingly.




    28    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
AI Applications in CV

                      Image classification                                                     Video inpainting
  Uses extensive amounts of unlabeled data                                                      Restores and enhances video quality using
   to improve the representation capability                                                     deep learning-based techniques.
        of models for applications in various
                          general scenarios.



                  Object detection                                     AI applications                Intelligent driving
          Identifies and locates objects in                                in CV                   Enables vehicles to perceive
                                                                                                   surroundings, make decisions, and
             images or videos, supporting
         automatic analysis and decision-                                                          perform driving operations like
                                  making.                                                          human drivers.



               Semantic segmentation                                                                  ...
          Assigns a predefined class label to each                                       ...
       pixel in an image, implementing pixel-level
                            image understanding.




 29   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  CV Task - Object Detection
  ⚫    Object detection is one of the fundamental technologies for image processing and computer
       vision in the AI field. It has a wide range of applications, such as traffic monitoring, image
       search, facial recognition, and human-computer interaction. Object detection technologies can
       help detect objects in an image for further processing with intelligent algorithms.


                                                                                  Car                     Car
                                                                                                    Car
                                                                                                                        Car

                                                                                              Car
                                                                                                                Car

                                                                                        Car
                                                                            Car

                                                                                                                  Car




      30   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Due to different appearances, shapes, and arrangements of objects, as well as lighting and
  shading during imaging, object detection has always been the largest challenge in the field
  of computer vision.

• Despite similar techniques used, object recognition is slightly different from object
  detection. Given a specific object, target recognition is aimed to find an instance of the
  object in an image. This is not to classify but to judge whether the object appears in the
  image, and if so, the object is located. For example, a real-time image taken by a security
  camera is monitored to identify a face of a person.
   CV Task - Image Segmentation
  ⚫    Image segmentation is the process of partitioning an image into multiple segments based on
       the problem to be solved.
  ⚫    There are many algorithms and application methods for image segmentation. Common ones
       include connected component segmentation, motion segmentation, and object segmentation.




      31   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Object segmentation: semantic segmentation and instance segmentation.

           ▫ Semantic segmentation refers to pixel-level image recognition, that is, marking the
             object category to which each pixel in the image belongs.

           ▫ Instance segmentation is a task of identifying each instance of an object from an
             image and performing pixel-level labeling on each of the instances.

• Segmentation is a pixel-level description of an image, and makes each pixel category
  (instance) count. It is applicable to scenarios with high requirements for understanding, for
  example, segmentation between roads and off-roads in unmanned driving.

• Input and output:

           ▫ Input: image.

           ▫ Output: segmented images with the same resolution as the input image and label of
             each pixel category.
CV Task - Object Tracking
⚫    Object tracking is a core research area in computer vision and has a wide range of applications,
     such as intelligent transportation, security monitoring, human-machine interaction, and
     autonomous driving.
⚫    Tracking algorithms can obtain the trajectories of target objects in terms of time to analyze
     their movement behaviors.




    32   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
    CV Task - OCR
⚫    Optical Character Recognition (OCR) is the process of recognizing characters in images or scans and
     converting them into editable ones using image processing technologies such as character object
     detection and object classification. OCR improves service efficiency by sparing manual information input.
     OCR can be used to identify characters in ID cards, driving licenses, vehicle licenses, invoices, customs
     forms, general tables, and general text.




    33   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
      CV Task - Image Generation
  ⚫    Image generation refers to generating a wholly new image, modifying a part of an image, or generating a new image
       based on an existing one.
                Super resolution is a process of estimating a high-resolution image from a low-resolution counterpart and predicting image
                 features at different magnifications.
                Style migration is a process of applying the style of one domain or several images to other domains or images. For example, an
                 abstract style is applied to a realistic image.
                Image inpainting is the process of fixing images, for example, restoring damaged black-and-white photos and videos.




                                                                                                     Image inpainting
      34       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Input and output:

           ▫ Input: realistic image and random noise

           ▫ Output: generated image
     Contents

      1.       AI Overview
      2.       AI Technologies
                   AI Technologies
                   NLP
                   CV
              ◼     Foundation Model

      3.       Overview of DeepSeek and Its Influence on AI Development
      4.       AI Applications
      5.       Debates and Future of AI



35   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
What Is a Foundation Model (1)?
⚫    A foundation model refers to a model that
     is trained on large-scale data, has a
     massive number of parameters, and has
     powerful functionalities.




    36   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
What Is a Foundation Model (2)?
                                                                       Principles Behind Large Models

                          Scaling Law                                              Chinchilla Law                                Emergent Abilities
                                                                                                                           When the model reaches a certain
              As the model size increases                                       The model size and the                     size and scale, it shows a sudden
               exponentially, the model                                        number of training tokens                   and unexpected improvement in
            performance increases linearly.                                   should scale at equal rates.                  performance and generalization
                                                                                                                                       capability.


       What makes a model "large":                                                                     Three problems of large models:
                                                                                                       ✓ How many parameters does a large model
       ✓ Large-scale data: Extensive data to cover nearly all real-
                                                                                                          have?
         world scenarios
                                                                                                       ✓ How can we develop complex algorithms?
       ✓ Large-scale model: High capacity to adapt to almost any                                       ✓ How does a model process the input data
         scenario                                                                                         and produce the output?
       ✓ Large-scale compute: Robust computing resources for
         handling intricate calculations

 37   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Where Does a Foundation Model Come from? (1)

                                       RNN/LSTM/CNN…                                                                         Output Probabilities
                                                                                                    Google's research team
                                                                                                    proposed the              Linear+Softmax
                                                                                                    transformer in 2017.
                                                                                         Y3                                     Add & Norm
                                                                          Y1     Y2

                                                                                                                               Feed Forward

                                                Semantic                                                                        Add & Norm
            Encoder                              coding                        Decoder                      Add & Norm
                                                                                                                               Multi-Head
                                                                                                            Feed Forward
                                                                                                                               Attention
    x1      x2         x3         x4
                                                                                                  𝑁×        Add & Norm         Add & Norm

                                                                                                                                 Masked
                                                                                                             Multi-Head         Multi-Head
   In 2014, researchers in machine translation proposed the                                                  Attention          Attention
   Seq2Seq model. This was a new way to implement end-to-
                                                                                              Positional                                            Positional
   end machine translation based on the RNN architecture.                                     Encoding                                              Encoding

                                                                                                           Input Embedding   Input Embedding


    38   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• The core idea of the Seq2Seq model is to use an encoder network to encode an input
  sequence into a vector in a fixed dimension or a series of hidden states, and then the
  decoder network generates a target sequence word by word.
  Where Does a Foundation Model Come from? (2)




                                                                      Origin of a foundation model - Transformer



    39   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• With Transformer as the infrastructure, foundation models are developed in different
  branches.
From Small to Large


                                                                                           Compute: EFLOPS-           ...
                                                                                           level computing      DeepSeek
                                                                                           power
                                                                                                                    GLM
                                                                   Data: A dataset with
                                                                   up to trillions of                             LLaMA
                                                                   tokens for training a
                                                                   single model
                                                                                                                     GPT
                                                                                                                            ViT

                       Algorithm: From
                       millions of                                                                            Transformer
                       parameters to
                       billions of                                                                                          ResNet
                       parameters
                                                                                                                            VGG
                                                                                                                   ELMO
                                                                                                                            AlexNet

 40   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Sizes of Foundation Models
⚫    A foundation model usually has hundreds of millions of parameters and has powerful
     representation and generalization capabilities.
                                                                           Parameters   Model         Parameters (B)   tokens
                                                 Model
                                                                            (million)   GPT3          175              3000B
                                         ResNet101                        44.55         GPT4          17,60            13T
                                         ResNet152                        60.19                       (estimated)
                                         Yolo v7                          74.8          LLaMA1        7–70             1.4T
                                         VGG16                            138           LLaMA2                         2T
                                                                                        LLaMA3        8–70             15T
                                                                                        GLM           6–130            400B
                                                                                        T5            11               34B
                                                                                        PaLM2         340              3.6T
                                                                                        Stable LM 2   21               2T



    41   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Dataset
                                                                       Data Scale                        Data Diversity


                                                                                           The data is usually used for a specific task or domain
                                         A dataset usually contains millions or tens of      (such as medical image classification and speech
                                        millions of data records, suitable for resource-     keyword recognition), and a wide coverage is not
  Small models                         constrained scenarios (such as mobile devices or                           needed.
                                                         edge devices).                     The data is more centralized to optimize the model
                                                                                                    performance in specific scenarios.



                                       Large models need to process and learn more
                                                                                            The datasets involve multiple domains and topics,
                                     complex relationships and patterns, and therefore
                                                                                             including but not limited to science, technology,
  Large models                         require large-scale datasets. For example, the
                                                                                                    culture, art, history, and business.
                                        Common Crawl dataset used to train GPT-3
                                                                                            Datasets are no longer limited to a single modality
                                         contains hundreds of billions of tokens, a
                                                                                            or a specific domain, but present multi-modal and
                                      significant increase compared with the dataset
                                                                                                       cross-domain characteristics.
                                                used to train a small model.



 42   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Large Model and Small Model




             Small models are light and highly efficient.              Large models feature higher processing capabilities and
             They are suitable when resources are limited and          accuracy. They are suitable when high complexity and
             only one task needs to be performed, for example,         accuracy are required.
             a watch that is only used to check the time.              For example, a smartwatch can be used to check the
                                                                       time, heartbeat, sleep, and other parameters.




 43   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  How Does a Foundation Model Learn?
                                                     Hundreds of billions of
                                                parameters and trillions of tokens               Quality fine-tuned data for specific
                                                General knowledge of industries                       industries and scenarios
                                                           and fields




                                                                                      General
                              Computing




                                                                                     knowledge
                                power




                                                                                                 Industry- and scenario-specific
                                                    Foundation models
                                                                                                      foundation models




    44   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Foundation models require massive data for learning. It is costly to train models for each
  industry and scenario from scratch. Therefore, the learning of foundation models is based
  on a basic model pre-trained on massive data and then fine-tuning is performed based on
  industry data.
Foundation Models That Can Speak and Paint
⚫    Unlike conventional single-modal models (which process only one type of information such as text,
     images, or audio), a foundation model can integrate multi-modal data (text, image, video, and audio) for
     comprehensive understanding and inference.
⚫    Cross-modal understanding: The relationship between different types of data can be understood. For
     example, information is extracted from an image and described in text, or an image or video is generated
     based on a text description.
                                                                                                                     Foundation Model


                                                        Comprehensive model pipeline
                                                        Provides an end-to-end tool chain for model
                                                        development, training, and inference, together with
                                                        seamless coordination among DataOps + MLOps +         Text
                                                        DevOp, making development 50% more efficient.




    45   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  AI Breakthroughs Driven by Foundation Models - Emergence
  ⚫    When a complex system consists of many micro individuals, these micro individuals are combined and
       interact with each other. Integrating many micro individuals can result in a special phenomenon at the
       macro level that cannot be explained using a single unit. This phenomenon is called "emergence".
  ⚫    Currently, two task types are considered to experience emergence:
                In-context learning (ICL): ICL helps algorithms understand the meaning and relationships among words in a
                 sentence and recognize the relationships among different objects in an image.
                Chain-of-thought (CoT): Users write down step-by-step inference processes and provide them for a large
                 language model (LLM) so it can perform some complex inference tasks.




      46       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Emergence also exists in daily life, for example, snowflake formation, traffic jams, animal
  migration, and vortex formation. Snowflakes are used as an example for explanation. A
  snowflake is composed of small water molecules. However, if a large number of water
  molecules interact with each other under the premise of external temperature change, a
  regular, symmetric, and beautiful snowflake will be formed at the macro level.

• When the model size is not large enough, tasks cannot be processed properly. However,
  when the model size exceeds a threshold, those tasks can be properly performed in a
  sudden.
  Stepwise Thinking - CoT
  ⚫    COT is an improved prompting strategy that helps LLMs perform better in complex inference tasks, such as
       arithmetic, common sense, and symbolic inference. Unlike ICL, where prompts are constructed using simple input-
       output pairs, CoT combines intermediate inference steps, which can import the final output to prompts.

                                                       Standard Prompting                                      CoT Prompting
                                            Model Input                                               Model Input
                                                                                                 Q: Roger has 5 tennis balls. He buys 2 more cans of tennis balls.
                                    Q: Roger has 5 tennis balls. He buys 2 more cans of tennis
                                                                                                 Each can has 3 tennis balls. How many tennis balls does he have
                                    balls. Each can has 3 tennis balls. How many tennis balls
                                                                                                 now?
                                    does he have now?
                                                                                                 A: Roger started with 5 balls. 2 cans of 3 tennis balls each is 6 tennis
                                    A: The answer is 11.
                                                                                                 balls. 5 + 6 = 11. The answer is 11.
                                    Q: The cafeteria had 23 apples. If they used 20 to make
                                                                                                 Q: The cafeteria had 23 apples. If they used 20 to make lunch and
                                    lunch and bought 6 more, how many apples do they have?
                                                                                                 bought 6 more, how many apples do they have?


                                                                                                    Model Output
                                         Model Output
                                                                                                 A: The cafeteria had 23 apples originally. They used 20 to make
                                     A: The answer is 27.             ×                          lunch. So, they had 23 - 20 = 3. They bought 6 more apples, so they
                                                                                                 have 3 + 6 = 9. The answer is 9.
                                                                                                                                                             √
      47   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Compared with the traditional in-context learning (which uses x1, y1, x2, y2, ... xtest as the
  input to enable the foundation model to provide the output ytest), the chain of thought
  introduces intermediate inference prompts.

• https://bbs.huaweicloud.com/blogs/406077.
     Contents

     1. AI Overview

     2. AI Technologies

     3. Overview of DeepSeek and Its Influence on AI Development

     4. AI Applications

     5. Debates and Future of AI




48   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
A History of DeepSeek

                                                                                                            05/2024                          12/2024
                                                                                                          DeepSeek-V2                      DeepSeek-V3
               07/2023                                                                              DeepSeek-V2 was launched        Developed with 671 billion
          Launch of DeepSeek                                                      11/2023           at a price point similar to     parameters, V3 was trained in
                                                                                  LLM Chat          mainstream LLMs, securing       just 55 days and at one-tenth
          Liang Wenfeng, co-                                                                        seventh spot in a ranking       the cost of similar models,
                                                                            DeepSeek-LLM Chat
          founder of High-Flyer,                                                                    by the University of            outperforming Llama 3.1 and
                                                                            was developed with 67
          launched DeepSeek.                                                                        Waterloo.                       Qwen 2.5 and rivaling GPT-4o.
                                                                            billion parameters.
                                                                                                                                                                     Leading new
High-Flyer          Start                                                                                                                                               modes
                                                                                                                           11/2024                         01/2025
                                                                                                                       DeepSeek-R1-Lite-                 DeepSeek-R1
                                                                           11/2023                                         Preview
                                                                        DeepSeek Coder                                DeepSeek claimed that         DeepSeek-R1 is positioned to
                                                                                                                      its reasoning model           provide performance on par
                                                                  A free and open course
                                                                                                                      exceeds OpenAI o1 in          with OpenAI o1 and supports
                                                                  model was released,
                                                                                                                      logical inference,            model distillation.
                                                                  designed for doing tasks.
                                                                                                                      mathematical reasoning,
                                                                                                                      and real-time problem
                                                                                                                      solving.




  49   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
How Popular Is DeepSeek?
⚫    On January 31, 2025, it was reported DeepSeek AI topped the list for most downloaded mobile app in 140 global
     markets. This led to big US companies like Microsoft, NVIDIA, and Amazon to embrace and interconnect with
     DeepSeek.
⚫    As of February 9, 2025, DeepSeek had seen 110 million downloads—up from the 2.26 million downloads between
     January 20 and 26 and 63 million downloads the following week—with nearly 97 million weekly active users. This
     resulted in a week-on-week growth of 2,700%, a remarkable feat achieved without significant marketing investment.


                                                                          Weekly app downloads                      Unit: 10,000
                                                                          7000
                                                                          6000
                                                                                                       6300
                                                                          5000
                                                                          4000
                                                                          3000
                                                                          2000
                                                                          1000
                                                                                            226
                                                                             0
                                                                                                  Cycle
                                                                                    Jan. 20–26     Jan. 27–Feb. 2

    50   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
    What Makes DeepSeek So Popular?




     51    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




•         DeepSeek provides performance that rivals GPT-4o, but at a much lower training cost.
          While ChatGPT-4 ran up costs reaching US$78–100 million, DeepSeek-V3 was launched
          with just US$5.576 million (2.788 million H800 GPU hours)—just 5–10% of similar
          models.

•         DeepSeek uses the new Mixture of Experts architecture, Multi-Head Latent Attention,
          auxiliary loss-free load balancing, and Multi-Token Prediction.

•         V3 uses an innovative approach for training.
    Influence of DeepSeek on AI Development




     52    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




•         Challenging big tech monopoly: For a long time, the AI field has been dominated by a
          few tech giants that boast countless resources and other advantages. With DeepSeek,
          there is legitimate competition to the existing monopoly. DeepSeek boasts strong
          capabilities and a unique open-source strategy that have combined into various
          breakthroughs and widespread uptake in major markets. Many users and developers
          have moved to DeepSeek for both personal and work issues, disrupting the previous
          balance and prompting rival companies to reassess their market strategies.

•         Intense industry competition: DeepSeek's success has inspired more companies and
          research institutions to invest in AI. To gain a competitive edge, major companies are
          investing more in R&D by introducing more cutting-edge technologies, which have not
          only improved technical performance but also reduced costs and expanded application
          scenarios. In the LLM market, this has sparked a price war, forcing other companies to
          lower prices to remain competitive. This greater competition has catalyzed faster
          technological iterations and ensured a baseline for AI development costs.

•         Open-source strategy: DeepSeek is open-source, meaning it is available for anyone to
          download, copy, and build upon, marking a break in the typical method of closed-source
          AI. As part of their drive for sharing and collaboration, DeepSeek is available for
          developers for secondary development of new, sector-specific technologies, advancing
    the application of AI in various fields.

•   Pioneering AI development: Prior to DeepSeek's emergence, AI development required
    huge investment in both money and computing resources. This notion has changed with
    DeepSeek, which demonstrated that achievements can be made even under limited
    resource conditions through using innovative algorithms and efficient training methods.
    Now, AI development is not simply reliant on computing power and model scale, but on
    innovations in algorithms, resources, and applications, paving the way for new avenues of
    AI development.

•   Diverse models: DeepSeek delivers powerful language understanding, text generation,
    mathematical reasoning, and code processing, meaning it can be applied to meet diverse
    needs in many different industries and domains. In finance, it can be used for risk
    assessment and investment decisions; in healthcare, it can assist in diagnosis and drug
    development; and in education, it can help develop personalized learning and intelligent
    tutoring. The countless benefits have seen wider support and popularity for AI in
    everyday life.

•   Lower development barrier: Open-source models have reduced the barrier for
    enterprises and developers to develop AI. Instead of starting from scratch, developers
    instead have free tools to quickly build complex AI models or applications. Now, SMEs or
    other small-scale teams can develop and train applications quicker and more
    economically.

•   More importance attached to inference: Since development costs are set to decrease
    with each iteration, the focus will shift to balancing cost and performance in the inference
    phase. This will likely lead to changes in computing power structures. The importance of
    inference computing power will increase significantly, driven by user needs.

•   Domestic opportunities: Numerous chip manufacturers have adapted their products to
    DeepSeek, influencing global chip design considerations. This is advantageous for major
    Chinese processor companies, as it can stimulate a wider ecosystem and provide more
    opportunities for domestic computing power.
    How DeepSeek Influences Future AI Development




     53    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




•         Algorithm innovation: DeepSeek achieves efficient training and powerful performance
          with limited resources thanks to its excellent algorithms, an enhanced Transformer
          architecture, and a unique attention mechanism and training framework. Since
          algorithms are crucial for advancing AI, companies and research institutions should
          increase investment accordingly, aiming to explore new paths for enhanced system
          performance and efficiency.

•         Application innovation: Another notable aspect of DeepSeek in various fields
          demonstrates the potential for deep integration of AI across industries. Companies are
          looking to explore AI in their practices and business models to improve production and
          gain tangible value.

•         Technology sharing: Open-source models can be shared and used by global developers,
          encouraging wider technology sharing and collaboration. By open-sourcing code and
          models, ecosystem users can work together to improve AI technology, while companies
          can actively participate in open-source projects to share their achievements and hear
          from others' experience.

•         Secure and economical R&D: Open-source projects can lower R&D costs and risks. SMEs
          and startups can leverage open-source AI to create their products or services without
    substantial investment or uncertainty from starting from scratch. Further feedback from
    the open-source community can help refine and enhance products for added market
    competitiveness.

•   Prioritizing AI talent: The success of DeepSeek can be attributed to the exceptional AI
    team working behind the scenes. With the demand for AI growing every year, there is an
    equal demand for talented personnel who have a solid foundation in mathematical and
    computer science, expertise in core AI technologies, and a drive for innovation.
    Governments, universities, and enterprises should collaborate to provide initiatives that
    encourage the next generation of AI talent. This includes boosting investments in AI
    education and nurturing more professionals based on industry demands.

•   Talent enablement: Enterprises and research institutions need to create a favorable
    environment to attract and retain excellent AI personnel. This means providing
    competitive compensation, development opportunities, a supportive atmosphere, and
    encouraging innovation and exploration. It is also important to ensure objective and fair
    talent evaluation that prioritizes actual achievements.
DeepSeek in the Industry
⚫    Major companies inside and outside China are moving to use DeepSeek or integrate it with their existing
     applications.
⚫    Owing to its powerful features and open-source nature, the AI has been widely adopted in many sectors, catalyzing
     significant technological advancements in all fields.
                                                                             On February 5, Huawei officially linked its Celia
                                                                             app with DeepSeek-R1 (beta). This strategic
                                                                             partnership has enhanced Celia for programmers
                                                                             and coders, students struggling with complex
                                                                             math calculations, or professionals needing logical
                                                                             reasoning analysis. Now, users can access the
                                                                             DeepSeek-R1 model through the Celia app to
                                                                             quickly receive accurate answers.


                                                                                                                                   On February 7, Geely Auto announced its self-
         Henan Yunfei Technology Development Co., Ltd.                                                                             developed Xingrui AI large model will integrate with
         partnered with DeepSeek to explore its potential in                                                                       DeepSeek.
         agricultural plant protection thanks to robust data
         analysis. This led to better capabilities in identifying                                                                  On February 7, Dongfeng Motor announced its entire
         patterns of and predicting the risk of disease and                                                                        passenger vehicle lineup is integrated with DeepSeek
         pest outbreaks. The AI can recommend agricultural                                                                         LLMs. Wholly-owned brands it has including MHERO,
         plant protection tailored to farms and crops based                                                                        eπ, Aeolus, and Nammi will soon adopt the AI-
         on real-time field data.                                                                                                  powered system.


    54      Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1.       AI Overview

      2.       AI Technologies

      3.       Overview of DeepSeek and Its Influence on AI Development

      4.       AI Applications
              ◼     AI Application History
                   AI Application Cases

      5.       Debates and Future of AI




55   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
AI Application History - From Perception and Understanding to
Creation and Generation
  AI milestones                                       Perception and                     Cognition, generation, and                                     General-
                      Automation                      understanding                               creation                                             purpose AI

                                                                                                                                               As intelligent or even more
                                                                                                                                                intelligent than humans
                                                                                           Vertical data + Foundation model
                                                                                                    Exquisite articles
                                                          Big data + deep                                                                                      AGI
                                                              learning                                                                                  General-purpose AI
                                                        Getting to know the                                                                             foundation model
                                                                world
                       Human rules +
                         Machine                                                                                    Multi-model driven by
                         execution                                                                                   foundation models                 100 trillion
                                                                                    Generative AI                  /Multi-task collaboration
                                                                                                                            system
                                                                                                                                                       parameters
                                                                                     application                                                              VS
                                                            Pattern recognition
                                                                  system                              Multimodal                                       100 trillion
                                   Expert                    Recommendation                           Foundation                                      synapses in human
                                                                                     Foundation
                                  systems                         system                                Model                                               brains
      AI                                                                               Model
 development
                         1956               1997              2015       2020     2022                    2024          5–10 years                            10+ years
                      Beginning of AI

 56   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Weighty Application - ChatGPT
⚫    ChatGPT is a next-generation dialog-based AI system developed by
     OpenAI based on its GPT language model.
              ChatGPT had over 100 million active users only two months after its
               launch, making it the fastest growing consumer-level application in
               history.
⚫    ChatGPT is acclaimed for human-like understanding and inference
     capabilities in language, context, intent, and logic. It has outstanding
     performance in high-quality, multi-round, and long-text human-
     machine interaction, and has achieved preliminary "intelligent
     emergence."
⚫    ChatGPT is currently in its GPT4-o version with multi-modal
     capabilities and multi-domain expertise.


    57       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Applications Similar to ChatGPT



 • After the release of ChatGPT, many similar
   applications have been released in China and
   globally.

 • Today, these applications have integrated multiple
   functions, such as text, code, video, and image
   generation.




                                                                       Other




 58   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
From Single Tasks to Multiple Tasks


                                                          Object
                                                         detection


                                                        Machine
      Transformer
                                                       translation


                                                          Image
                                                        generation


            …                                                    …




 59    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
From Simple Tasks to Complex Tasks
                                                                                   Application scenario

                                              Specific optimization tasks; single task types        A wide coverage of domains; diverse tasks




                                                                                      Generalization

 Traditional                              Weak adaptation to new samples; single-type data      Strong capabilities in cross-domain task processing,
                                                             inference                          knowledge transfer, and adaptation to new samples         LLM
  DL model
                                                                                                                                                       applications
applications


                                                                                      Model capability
                                              Poor generation capabilities; mostly used for     Strong creativity, zero-shot & few-shot, and logical
                                                         discrimination tasks                                         reasoning



                                    Simple scenarios                                                                      Complex scenarios


 60   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1.       AI Overview

      2.       AI Technologies

      3.       Overview of DeepSeek and Its Influence on AI Development

      4.       AI Applications
                   AI Application History
              ◼     AI Application Cases

      5.       Debates and Future of AI




61   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Intelligent Mining
   Scenario 1: Electromechanical chamber - storing power                                      Solution for scenario 1: Automatic
   distribution and communications equipment                                                  inspection robot
   Objective: To implement unattended automatic inspection                                     Video surveillance: AI machine vision for 24-hour
                                                                                               monitoring, alarms, and sensitive area inspection
                24-hour monitoring of                                                          Sound detection: AI intelligently identifies whether
                                                                          Scheduled manual     machines are running properly
   Challenge 1: the chamber                                Challenge 2:   inspection
                environment




                                                                                                Scenario 2
                                                                                                        Belt tear monitoring                 Belt deviation monitoring
   Scenario 2: Underground intelligent monitoring
                           Challenges

   Coal conveyor           It's unsafe and time-consuming to inspect a coal conveyor belt
   belt                    longer than 20 km. Multiple belt segments need to collaborate to
                           prevent coal accumulation.
   Behavior protocol       Not wearing safety helmets, smoking, passing under equipment,
   violations              walking in laneways, and sitting on belts
   Operational             Improper operations during gas drainage and water inspection and
   violations              drainage


   62   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• https://e.huawei.com/cn/material/wireless/4d008289c5424b31a055c71eaaed5790
  AI Helps Protect Nature - Preserving Chile's Biodiversity
  ⚫    The Nature Guardian project uses Huawei Cloud and AI to research and protect Darwin's foxes in
       the Nahuelbuta Mountains. The Nature Guardian is an acoustic monitoring system developed by
       Rainforest Connection (RFCx) and has been effective in several projects.

  ⚫    It consists of solar devices equipped with microphones and antennas. These devices collect
       sound data from the surrounding environment and transmit it to the cloud through wireless
       networks for AI data analysis. Each device can cover three square kilometers around the clock.

  ⚫    The Nature Guardian can capture animal sounds as well as illegal noise made by poachers'
       gunshots or trucks and electric saws of illegal loggers.

  ⚫    The trained AI model can identify the sounds of different animals, enabling experts to study the
       distribution and behavior of species and helping with environmental protection through
       adaptive management.

  ⚫    If a threat is identified, the system sends a real-time alarm to the ranger's mobile application for
       a fast response.

                                                                                                                                        Darwin's Fox
                                                                            Source:https://www.huawei.com/cn/tech4all/stories/nature-guardians-for-biodiversity-in-chile


      63   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• https://www.huawei.com/cn/tech4all/stories/nature-guardians-for-biodiversity-in-chile
  AI Safeguards Nature - Protecting Wildlife in Greece with a Shield of Sound




    64   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• https://www.huawei.com/cn/tech4all/stories/wildlife-greece
Scaling Law in AI for Science
Multi-disciplinary and multi-scale data
to train four fundamental science
models: life, materials, fluids, and
electromagnetism                                                         Atomic orbitals Crystal structure   Small molecule        Proteins


                                                                                                       Universal
                                                                                                       Material
                                                                                                        Model




                                                              Cell
                                                                                                        Universal             Universal
                                                                                Universal
                                                                                                       AI4Science               Fluid
                                                                                Life Model
                                                                                                         Model                 Model

                                                                                                                                               Turbine simulation



                                                             Brain
                                                                                                       Universal
                                                                                                    electromagnetic
                                                                                                         model
                                                                                                                                                       Weather forecasting

                                                                     Electromagnetic simulations               Geophysical Electromagnetic Inversion

   65   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
AI4Science

                                                         Emergent intelligence based on massive data in various industries


                                                                                                        Aerospace       Information and                   Synthetic
      Industry                 Pharmaceutical              Materials     Chemical       Meteorology
                                                                                                       manufacturing    communications
                                                                                                                                            Healthcare
                                                                                                                                                           biology
                                                                                                                                                                          Breeding




                                                                                                                          Electromagnetism
  Universal                              Materials                                         Fluids
                                                                                                                       Universal Electromagnetic
                                                                                                                                                                    Life
                                  Universal Material Model                          Universal Fluid Model                                                   Universal Life Model
   model                                                                                                                         Model


    Multi-
                                                         Small
 disciplinary                   Materials
                                                        molecule
                                                                          Protein             Fluid         Gas        Electromagnetism            Gene     Cell            Organ

     data




 66     Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
AI4Science - AI + Meteorology
  Weather models for fast, accurate weather forecasting

                                                                           Weather Model
                                                                                                                        More accurate

                                                                                                                  Forecasting accuracy      20%



                                                                                                                     Faster and greener
           80
      typhoons worldwide
                                                                                                               Compute used for generating a 10-day
                                                                                                                        weather forecast
                                                                                                          Traditional Numerical      Weather model
           each year                                                                                       Weather Prediction          inference
                                                                                                                  (NMP)
                                                                                                              3,000 servers                1 device
                                                                                                                  5 hours                10 seconds

                                                                                                                 Forecasting speed       10,000x
                                                                        3D weather model | Hierarchical
                                                                            temporal aggregation




 67    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
AI4Science - AI + Drugs
                      Drug molecule models for much higher drug design efficiency
                                                                                       Costly and time-consuming
 Industry                     Long drug discovery period
                                                                                       manual experiments
pain points
                                                               Drug molecule model
                                                         Learns small-molecule compounds                   Novel compound
                    ZINC                                          as humans do                            library generation
              DrugSpaceX                  Molecular                                        Molecular         Protein target
                UniChem                                        [x1, x2, x3, ..., xn]                           matching
                                          encoder                                          decoder
                                                                                                           Compound property
          About 1.7 billion        compounds                                                                    prediction
                                                                100s of millions of                      Compound structure
                                                                   parameters                               optimization

                                            Drug targets


                                                              Hit                           Lead
                                                          compound                       compound                         Screening result
                                                          candidate                      candidate                            library
                        Compound                            library                        library
  Drug molecule model, database                                                                                                              Ye a r s          1 month
  producing 100 million
                                                              Compound property predictor            Compound optimizer
    structurally novel
       compounds                                                                                                                             Lead compound discovery cycle

  68   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Smart Government
                                Real-time, all-domain                   Office collaboration         Better services for residents         Precise and efficient city
                                       sensing                          anytime, anywhere                  and businesses                        governance

                                    Event analysis                      Report generation             Intelligent online services       Government service digital human
                                Government hotline                      Document writing            Government service assistant             Policy recommendation
                                            …                                   …                                   …                                   …

                                     Unified city                         One-network                   All-in-one government                                                  Scenario-
                                                                                                                                            Intelligent operation center
                                     management                           collaboration                         services                                                        specific
                                       Five major skills for full-process intelligent sensing, recognition, processing, and decision-making                                     models
                                                                        Government                                       Video-based multimodal       Open-vocabulary object
                                 Government Q&A                                                City video sensing
                                                                        copywriting                                          understanding                  detection



                                                                                                                                       Pre-trained on massive government
                               100 billion parameters                                      Government Model                                     service knowledge
                             Hybrid network architecture                                                                               Multimodal data understanding and
                                                                                                                                                   recognition


                                                                       All-scenario smart government services and ecosystems



 69   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
AI For Coding




 70   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1.       AI Overview

      2.       AI Technologies

      3.       Overview of DeepSeek and Its Influence on AI Development

      4.       AI Applications

      5.       Debates and Future of AI
              ▫ Debates in AI

              ▫ Future of AI



71   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Debates in AI
  ⚫    There are many debates around AI technologies, especially as they evolve:
                Is what we see or hear true?
                How do we solve the ethical issues in AI?
                Will everyone lose their jobs in the future?
                Will our privacy be protected? How do we protect our privacy?
                Will AI be controllable in the future?
                ...




      72       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• What you see may not be true.

• Ethical issues will be controlled by policies and regulations.

• Partial unemployment may be caused thereby.

• Privacy may possibly be leaked. However, privacy can be protected depending on
  technologies such as differential privacy training, model fingerprint, and model encryption.

• Controllability.
Is Seeing Still Believing?
⚫    As AI technologies develop, we begin to question the credibility of images, audio, and video.
     Now, technologies such as multi-modal large models and generative adversarial network (GAN)
     can be used to produce false images and videos, making it difficult to distinguish between what
     is true and what is false.
              For example, Lyrebird is a tool that can automatically imitate human voices from several minutes of
               recording samples.
              Deepfake can generate videos with fake faces.




                                                                        True?      False?




    73       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Opinions on Ethical Issues in AI
⚫    Discrimination and stigmatization: Threatens social
     fairness and justice and restricts people's freedom of
     choice.
⚫    Autonomous decision-making: This mechanism
     endangers human autonomy. Results cannot be traced
     back and effective measures cannot be taken to correct
     decisions.
⚫    Disadvantages: The objectives, methods, and decisions
     of AI systems cannot be explained.
⚫    Harm to human dignity and mind, and physical
     damage: People may face unsafe environments (for
     example, coexistence with robots) and vulnerability to
     the malicious use of robots, privacy leaks, and
     susceptibility to deception and manipulation.



    74   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Will You Lose Your Job?
⚫    As a society, we have always been in pursuit of higher efficiency. The steam engine reduced the need for
     horses. Every step in achieving automation will change our life and work. In the era of AI, what jobs will
     be replaced by AI?
⚫    AI may replace:
              Repetitive work                                                 What opportunities
                                                                              and jobs will AI bring?
              Hazardous work
              ...


                                                                                        AI




    75       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Privacy and Data Security
  ⚫     Big data and AI allow us to obtain information more conveniently and efficiently. However, our behavior is also
        recorded and the data is used all the time. How can we protect private data?
   •        1. Users: Before obtaining the user's information, mobile
            applications must obtain the user's consent (privacy policy).
            Users can refuse to provide the information required by an
            application for proactive protection.

   •        2. Society: Actively promote the formulation of privacy
            protection clauses, implement basic industry rules, and
            strengthen supervision.

   •        3. Developers: Confidential computing, model privacy
            protection, federated learning, or adversarial learning can
            be used to prevent reverse attacks and protect user privacy.
            Alternatively, a well-established privacy protection
            framework.




       76     Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Confidential computing: Data transmission and computing are confidential, and privacy
  protection is costly.

• Model privacy protection: Commonly used methods include data anonymization,
  differential privacy training, model encryption, and model obfuscation. (Differential privacy
  can measure and control the leakage of trained data by models.)

• Federated learning: Generally, multi-party machine learning is performed without sharing
  data. It is essentially a distributed machine learning framework with limited data access.
  Computing nodes share only gradients but not raw data.
Problems to Be Solved
⚫    Are AI-created works protected by copyright laws?
⚫    Who gives authority to robots? What rights shall be given to robots?
⚫    ...

                                                                            Who owns it?




                                                             Model




    77     Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1.       AI Overview

      2.       AI Technologies

      3.       Overview of DeepSeek and Its Influence on AI Development

      4.       AI Applications

      5.       Debates and Future of AI
              ▫ Debates in AI

              ▫ Future of AI




78   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Value - Wide Application
  ⚫    AI will see wider application as vertical fields integrate the technology.
                Smart transportation: highways, airports, railways, logistics, ports
                Energy: electricity, oil, gas
                Finance: banking, insurance, and securities
                And more




      79       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Digital government: smart city, smart government, smart emergency response, sunny
  kitchen, smart water conservancy, and the like. For example, sunny kitchen uses AI machine
  vision to identify food types on meal plates and calculate prices and calories. Smart water
  conservancy and management can solve problems in the following aspects: 1. black water
  management and sewage monitoring (AI video algorithm for sewage identification, satellite
  remote sensing, and water pump gate scheduling); 2. reservoir (enhanced video, intelligent
  power supply, and integrated pole site for water conditions) 3. rivers and lakes (spectral
  water quality analysis, and 5G access to drones/ships).

• Smart mining: underground 5G network, security monitoring, and violation detection.

• Smart transportation: airports (IOC queuing management – sensing an extra long passenger
  queue: AI + video analysis; stand scheduling: operation optimization AI algorithm + big data
  + IoT + GIS + video + simulation...), and highways (holographic intersection, unmanned
  driving...).
Value - Growing Market

                                         The global AI market was expected to reach USD638.2 billion in 2024 (USD538.1
      Market scale
                                         billion in 2023).

                                         In 2022, the total global investment in AI IT was USD128.8 billion, which is
        Total AI IT
       investment
                                         estimated to rise to USD423.6 billion in 2027, representing a five-year compound
                                         annual growth rate (CAGR) of about 26.9%.


                                         In the first half of 2024, the market scale of AI foundation model solutions in
       Foundation
         Model
                                         China was CNY1.38 billion. The estimated CAGR is 56.2% from 2024 to 2028,
        Solutions                        reaching a market scale of CNY21.1 billion by 2028.




 80    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Value - Higher Production Efficiency
⚫    AI innovation plays a prominent role in
     advancing the manufacturing industry.
     Smart manufacturing can significantly
     improve product quality and production
     efficiency. Statistics show that AI
     reconstruction helps speed up R&D in
     factories by 20.7% and improve production                            A group of people work
                                                                          together.
     efficiency by 34.8%.                                                                          A few people control a group
⚫    Labor-intensive and technology-intensive                                                      of machines.

     enterprises should make full use of AI
     innovation. The former can use AI for
     higher labor productivity, while the latter
     has strong R&D capabilities and is
     somewhat ready for AI innovation.



    81   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Value - Industry-specific AI Applications
⚫    In addition to offering general capabilities, AI technologies are also customized for vertical industries to
     solve pain points in specific domains and provide differentiated solutions.
⚫    Industry-specific customization unlocks the true value of AI technologies. In the future, competition will
     increasingly hinge on a deep understanding of vertical scenarios.




    82   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Technology - Artificial General Intelligence
⚫    AGI is a computer system that can implement any intelligent human activity. It features
     universal intelligence, including self-learning, self-improvement, self-adjustment, and cross-
     domain and cross-modal learning, inference, and decision-making capabilities.




    83   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Technology - Embodied Artificial Intelligence
⚫    Embodied artificial intelligence is an
     intelligent system that implants AI in
     physical objects. This gives objects
     capabilities like autonomous perception,
     learning, decision-making, and action in
     physical environments, so they can
     flexibly adapt to physical environments
     and tasks.




    84   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
AI Devices
⚫    Smartphones will integrate AI,                                                                         ⚫   Intelligent vehicles will achieve
     enabling natural interactions and                                                                          intelligent driving in a real sense,
     becoming truly smart. They will                                                  Automotive                delivering safe and comfortable
     deliver a brand-new experience                                                                             driving experiences.
     together with wearable devices.                                      Mobile
                                                                                                    Robot
                                                                          phone


⚫    Smart home appliance will provide                                                   AI
                                                                                                            ⚫   Intelligent robots will feature
     recipe recommendations, optimize                                                                           stronger sensing and decision-
                                                                           Home
                                                                                                   Wearables
     energy usage, and offer language                                     appliance
                                                                                                                making capabilities, ready to
     interaction for a more comfortable                                                                         take on jobs like housekeeping
     experience.                                                                         ...                    and nursing.



    85   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
    Future of AI Applications
    ⚫    The future of AI applications is expected to see wider technology integration, deeper industry
         penetration, and continuous ethical and security considerations.




                                                                                 Enhanced                                             Open-source
                                                 Multimodal                                      Improved self-   Stricter ethical                         Energy
              Wider industry                                                   personalization                                             and
                                                 and cross-                                        learning        and security                        efficiency and
               applications                                                         and                                               democratized
                                                modal learning                                    capabilities        control                          sustainability
                                                                                adaptability                                         AI technologies




        86    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




•            Wider industry applications: As technologies become more mature and adaptable, large
             models are poised to find broader applications in traditional industries, such as
             manufacturing, energy, and logistics, to support more efficient problem-solving and
             decision-making.

•            Multimodal and cross-modal learning: Future large models will not be limited to a single
             domain such as text or images. Instead, they will be able to process and integrate
             multiple types of data (such as text, images, videos, and sounds) to provide a more
             comprehensive AI application experience.

•            Enhanced personalization and adaptability: Large models will better adapt to specific
             needs of individual users and provide customized services. For example, in the education
             and health fields, models can provide personalized suggestions based on individuals'
             learning progress or health status.

•            Improved self-learning capabilities: Future large models will have stronger self-learning
             capabilities, allowing them to learn new patterns and knowledge through continuous
             interaction and feedback. This reduces the reliance on large-scale labeled data.

•            Stricter ethical and security control: As large models become more widespread, ethical,
             privacy, and security issues will receive more attention. Future development will focus
    on ensuring the transparency, explainability, and fairness of models while strengthening
    data protection.

•   Open-source and democratized AI technologies: The development and application of large
    models may become more democratized. More research institutions and companies may
    make their models and technologies open-source to promote global technology sharing
    and innovation.

•   Energy efficiency and sustainability: Given the enormous energy consumption required to
    train large models, future research will focus on improving the energy efficiency of
    models and reducing the carbon footprint to support sustainable development.
     Summary

      ⚫     This chapter covered the definition and history of AI, its applications and sectors, and
            controversial topics and future trends in the field.




87   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
        Quiz

         1.       (Multi-choice question) Which of the following are applications of computer vision?
                 A. Knowledge graph

                 B. Semantic segmentation

                 C. Intelligent driving

                 D. Video analysis




   88   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Answer:

        ▫ BCD
     Recommendations

      ⚫     Huawei Talent Online Website
                   https://e.huawei.com/cn/talent/#/home

      ⚫     Huawei Cloud
                   https://www.huaweicloud.com/intl/en-us/




89   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Thank you.   把数字世界带入每个人、每个家庭、
             每个组织，构建万物互联的智能世界。
             Bring digital to every person, home, and
             organization for a fully connected,
             intelligent world.

             Copyright© 2025 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

             The information in this document may contain predictive
             statements including, without limitation, statements regarding
             the future financial and operating results, future product
             portfolio, new technology, etc. There are a number of factors that could
             cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those
             expressed or implied in the predictive statements. Therefore, such
             information is provided for reference purpose only and constitutes
             neither an offer nor an acceptance. Huawei may change the information
             at any time without notice.
Machine Learning Overview
    Objectives

    ⚫   Upon completion of this course, you will understand:
          ◼    Learning algorithm definitions and machine learning process
          ◼    Related concepts such as hyperparameters, gradient descent, and cross-validation
          ◼    Common machine learning algorithms




2   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
    Contents

    1. Machine Learning Algorithms

    2. Types of Machine Learning

    3. Machine Learning Process

    4. Important Machine Learning Concepts

    5. Common Machine Learning Algorithms




3   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Machine Learning Algorithms (1)
  ⚫       Machine learning is often combined with deep learning methods to study and observe AI
          algorithms. A computer program is said to learn from experience 𝐸 with respect to some class
          of tasks 𝑇 and performance measure 𝑃, if its performance at tasks in 𝑇, as measured by 𝑃,
          improves with experience 𝐸.


                                                                                                   Understanding
                                             Data                             Learning algorithm
                                                                                                   (Performance
                                    (Experience 𝐸)                                 (Task 𝑇)
                                                                                                    measure 𝑃)




      4      Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Deep learning is a sub-field of machine learning. To understand deep learning, you need to
  first understand the fundamentals of machine learning.

           ▫ Task 𝑇 represents how the machine learning system should process a sample.

           ▫ Performance measure 𝑃 is used to evaluate aspects of machine learning such as
             accuracy and error rate.

           ▫ Experience 𝐸: Most learning algorithms can be understood as being allowed to
             experience an entire dataset. Some machine learning algorithms do not just
             experience a fixed dataset. For example, reinforcement learning algorithms interact
             with an environment, so there is a feedback loop between the learning system and
             its training process. Machine learning algorithms can be broadly categorized as
             unsupervised or supervised by what kind of experience they are allowed to have
             during the learning process.

• To learn the game of Go:

           ▫ Experience 𝐸1 :Game with itself- Unsupervised and indirect learning

           ▫ Experience 𝐸2 :Inquiring Humans during a game with itself – Semi-supervised
             learning

           ▫ Experience 𝐸3 :Learning from human historical games - Supervised and direct
             learning
• Handwriting recognition problem:

      ▫ Task 𝑇: Recognize handwritten text

      ▫ Performance measure 𝑃: classification accuracy

      ▫ Experience 𝐸: Classified sample library (supervised and direct learning)
• Robots' desire to advance: Look for new games and practice their skills through tiny
  changes in the same situation, enriching their training examples.
Machine Learning Algorithms (2)




                                                                                                 Historical
                                         Experience
                                                                                                   data

                                                     Summarize                                         Train

                          Input                                Predict                   Input                 Predict
       New                                                                        New                                      Future
                                              Rules                      Future                    Model
     problem                                                                      data                                   attributes


 6    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
                                                                                                                   Created by: Jim Liang




Differences Between Machine Learning Algorithms and Traditional Rule-
based Methods
                        Rule-based method                                          Machine learning

                                                                                    Training data



                                                                                       Machine
                                                                                       learning


                                                                         New
                                                                                        Model         Prediction
                                                                         data

                                                                      • Models are trained on samples.
       • Explicit programming is used to solve
                                                                      • Decision-making rules are complex or
         problems.
                                                                        difficult to describe.
       • Rules can be manually determined.
                                                                      • Machines automatically learn rules.
 7   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
When to Use Machine Learning (1)
⚫       Machine learning provides solutions to complex problems, or those involving a large amount of data
        whose distribution function cannot be determined.
⚫       Consider the following scenarios:

                                                                         Task rules change over time, for example,   Data distribution changes over time and
         Rules are complex or difficult to describe,                    part-of-speech tagging, in which new words   programs need to adapt to new data
             for example, speech recognition.                           or word meanings can be generated at any     constantly, for example, sales trend
                                                                                           time.                     forecast.




    8       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
When to Use Machine Learning (2)



                              High
                                                                 Manual                        Machine learning
                                                                  rules                          algorithms

              Complexity of
                 rules


                                                                 Simple                          Rule-based
                              Low                               questions                        algorithms




                                                                      Small                          Large
                                                                              Scale of the problem

 9   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Rationale of Machine Learning Algorithms

                   Target equation
                      𝑓: 𝑋 → 𝑌

                                    Ideal

                                                                                   Actual
                  Training data                                        Learning             Hypothesis function
             𝐷: {(𝑥1 , 𝑦1 ) ⋯ , (𝑥𝑛 , 𝑦𝑛 )}                            algorithm                  𝑔≈𝑓


                  ⚫    The objective function 𝑓 is unknown, and the learning algorithm cannot obtain a
                       perfect function 𝑓.
                  ⚫    Hypothesis function 𝑔 approximates function 𝑓, but may be different from function
                       𝑓.

 10   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Main Problems Solved by Machine Learning
⚫    Machine learning can solve many types of tasks. Three most common types are:
         ◼   Classification: To specify a specific one of the k categories for the input, the learning algorithm usually outputs a function 𝑓: 𝑅 𝑛
             → (1,2, … , 𝑘) . For example, image classification algorithms in computer vision solve classification tasks.
         ◼   Regression: The program predicts the output for a given input. The learning algorithms usually output a function 𝑓: 𝑅 𝑛 → 𝑅.
             Such tasks include predicting the claim amount of a policy holder to set an insurance premium or predicting the security price.
         ◼   Clustering: Based on internal similarities, the program groups a large amount of unlabeled data into multiple classes. Same-
             class data is more similar than data across classes. Clustering tasks include search by image and user profiling.
⚫    Classification and regression are two major types of prediction tasks. The output of classification is discrete class
     values, and the output of regression is continuous values.




    11       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

     1. Machine Learning Algorithms

     2. Types of Machine Learning

     3. Machine Learning Process

     4. Important Machine Learning Concepts

     5. Common Machine Learning Algorithms




12   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Types of Machine Learning
  ⚫    Supervised learning: The program takes a known set of samples and trains an optimal model to generate
       predictions. Then, the trained model maps all inputs to outputs and performs simple judgment on the outputs. In
       this way, unknown data is classified.
  ⚫    Unsupervised learning: The program builds a model based on unlabeled input data. For example, a clustering model
       groups objects based on similarities. Unsupervised learning algorithms model the highly similar samples, calculate
       the similarity between new and existing samples, and classify new samples by similarity.
  ⚫    Semi-supervised learning: The program trains a model through a combination of a small amount of labeled data and
       a large amount of unlabeled data.
  ⚫    Reinforcement learning: The learning systems learn behavior from the environment to maximize the value of reward
       (reinforcement) signal function. Reinforcement learning differs from supervised learning of connectionism in that,
       instead of telling the system the correct action, the environment provides scalar reinforcement signals to evaluate its
       actions.
  ⚫    Machine learning evolution is producing new machine learning types, for example, self-supervised learning,
       contrastive learning, generative learning.


      13   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Supervised learning: We give a computer a bunch of choice questions (training samples)
  and provide standard answers. The computer tries to adjust its model parameters to make
  their predictions close to standard answers. In this way, the computer learns how to deal
  with this type of problem. Then the computer can help us reply to choice questions whose
  answers are not given (test samples).

• Unsupervised learning: We give a computer a bunch of choice questions (training samples),
  but do not provide standard answers. The computer tries to analyze the relationships
  between these questions and classify them. It does not know the answers to these
  questions, but it thinks that the answers to the questions in the same category should be
  the same.

• Semi-supervised learning: Traditional supervised learning uses a large number of labeled
  training samples to create a model for predicting the labels of new samples. For example, in
  a classification task, a label indicates the category of a sample while in a regression task, a
  label is a real-value output of the sample. As data storage capabilities are developing, we
  can easily obtain a large amount of unlabeled data from many tasks. However, labeling the
  data is labor-consuming and time-consuming. For example, for web page recommendation,
  users need to label web pages they like, but only a few users are willing to spend a lot of
  time doing this. Then we get limited labeled web page data and a large amount of
  unlabeled web page data.
• Reinforcement learning: We give a computer a bunch of choice questions (training samples),
  but do not provide standard answers. It tries to solve these questions, and we check
   whether the answers are correct as teachers. If the computer generates more correct
   answers, we offer more rewards. The computer adjusts its model parameters to make its
   predictions correct and obtain more rewards. Not strictly speaking, reinforcement learning
   can be understood as unsupervised learning plus supervised learning (unsupervised
   learning before supervised learning).
Supervised Learning

                               Data features                                                                Labels


         Feature 1                    ······               Feature n                                         Target

                                                                                    Supervised learning
         Feature 1                    ······               Feature n                                         Target
                                                                                        algorithm

         Feature 1                    ······               Feature n                                         Target

                                                                                                          Suitable for
             Weather                     Temperature                   Wind Speed
                                                                                                            Exercise
                Sunny                            High                     High
                                                                                                              Yes
                Rainy                            Low                    Medium
                                                                                                              No
                Sunny                            Low                      Low
                                                                                                              Yes
 15   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Supervised Learning - Regression
⚫    Regression reflects the features of sample attributes in a dataset. A function is used to express
     the sample mapping relationship and further discover the dependency between attributes.
     Examples include:
         ◼   How much money can I make from stocks next week?
         ◼   What will the temperature be on Tuesday?


                                                                              Monday   Tuesday

                                                                               38°       ?


    16       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Supervised Learning - Classification
⚫    Classification uses a classification model to map samples in a dataset to a given category.
         ◼   What category of garbage does the plastic bottle belong to?
         ◼   Is the email a spam?




    17       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Unsupervised Learning
                               Data features


         Feature 1                    ······               Feature n

                                                                                  Unsupervised learning   Intra-cluster
         Feature 1                    ······               Feature n                                        similarity
                                                                                       algorithm

         Feature 1                    ······               Feature n


      Monthly Sales                                Product             Sale Duration                         Category
        Volume                                                                                               Cluster 1
       1000-2000                          Badminton racket              6:00-12:00                           Cluster 2
         500-1000                                Basketball            18:00-24:00
       1000-2000                             Game console               00:00-6:00

 18   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Unsupervised Learning - Clustering
⚫    Clustering uses a clustering model to classify samples in a dataset into several categories based
     on similarity.
         ◼   Defining fish of the same species.
         ◼   Recommending movies for users.




    19       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Semi-supervised Learning

                               Data features                                                                       Labels


         Feature 1                    ······               Feature n                                                Target

                                                                                    Semi-supervised learning
         Feature 1                    ······               Feature n                                              Unknown
                                                                                           algorithm

         Feature 1                    ······               Feature n                                              Unknown


             Weather                     Temperature                   Wind Speed                              Suitable for
                Sunny                            High                     High                                   Exercise

                Rainy                            Low                    Medium                                     Yes

                Sunny                            Low                      Low                                       /
                                                                                                                    /
 20   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Reinforcement Learning
  ⚫    A reinforcement learning model learns from the environment, takes actions, and adjusts the
       actions based on a system of rewards.


                                                                                     Model



                Status 𝑠𝑡                                  Reward 𝑟𝑡                             Action 𝑎𝑡



                                                                            𝑟𝑡+1

                                                                            𝑠𝑡+1   Environment

      21   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Reinforcement learning uses a series of actions to maximize the reward function to learn a
  model.

• Both good and bad behavior can help reinforcement learning models learn.

• Example: Autonomous vehicles learn by continuously interacting with the environment
Reinforcement Learning - Best Action
⚫    Reinforcement learning always tries to find the best action.
         ◼   Autonomous vehicles: The traffic lights are flashing yellow. Should the vehicle brake or accelerate?
         ◼   Robot vacuum: The battery level is 10%, and a small area is not cleaned. Should the robot continue cleaning or
             recharge?




    22       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

     1. Machine Learning Algorithms

     2. Types of Machine Learning

     3. Machine Learning Process

     4. Important Machine Learning Concepts

     5. Common Machine Learning Algorithms




23   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Machine Learning Process




                                                                       Feature                                  Model
      Data                            Data                                              Model      Model
                                                                       extraction and                           deployment and
      preparation                     cleansing                                         training   evaluation
                                                                       selection                                integration




                                                                            Feedback and
                                                                              iteration



 24   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Machine Learning Basic Concept - Dataset
⚫    Dataset: collection of data used in machine learning tasks, where each piece of data is called a
     sample. Items or attributes that reflect the presentation or nature of a sample in a particular
     aspect are called features.
            Training set: dataset used in the training process, where each sample is called a training sample.
             Learning (or training) is the process of building a model from data.
            Test set: dataset used in the testing process, where each sample is called a test sample. Testing refers
             to the process, during which the learned model is used for prediction.




    25       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Data Overview
⚫    Typical dataset composition


                                                        Feature 1         Feature 2   Feature 3       Label


                                  No.                       Area          Location    Orientation   House Price
                                    1                        100              8         South          1000

                                    2                        120              9       Southwest        1300
          Training
             set                    3                         60              6         North          700

                                    4                         80              9       Southeast        1100

           Test set                 5                         95              3         South          850


    26   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Importance of Data Processing
⚫    Data is crucial to models and determines the scope of model capabilities. All good models
     require good data.



                        Data cleansing
                                                                              Data                          Data
                                                                                                       standardization
                                                                          preprocessing
                   Fill in missing values,                                                          Standardize data to
                   and detect and                                                                   reduce noise and
                   eliminate noise and                                                              improve model
                   other abnormal points                                                            accuracy
                                                                             Data dimension
                                                                               reduction

                                                                          Simplify data
                                                                          attributes to avoid the
                                                                          curse of
                                                                          dimensionality

    27   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Data Cleansing Workloads
⚫    What data scientists spend time doing for machine learning:

                                                                                                                 3% Rebuilding training sets
                                                                                                                 5% Other
                                                                                                                 4% Optimizing models

                                                                                                                 9% Mining data for patterns



                                                                                                                 19% Collecting datasets




                                                                                                                 60% Cleansing and organizing data


                                                                          CrowdFlower Data Science Report 2016




    28   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Data Cleansing
⚫    Most machine learning models process features, which are usually numeric representations of
     input variables that can be used in the model.
⚫    In most cases, only preprocessed data can be used by algorithms. Data preprocessing involves
     the following operations:
         ◼   Data filtering
         ◼   Data loss handling
         ◼   Handling of possible error or abnormal values
         ◼   Merging of data from multiple sources
         ◼   Data consolidation


    29       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Dirty Data
⚫    Raw data usually contains data quality problems:
         ◼   Incompleteness: Incomplete data or lack of relevant attributes or values.
         ◼   Noise: Data contains incorrect records or abnormal points.
         ◼   Inconsistency: Data contains conflicting records.


                                                                                                                 Missing value

                                                                                                                 Invalid value


                                                                                                                 Misfielded value



                                            Invalid duplicate                 Incorrect
                                                  items                        format     Dependent attributes    Misspelling

    30       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Data Conversion
⚫    Preprocessed data needs to be converted into a representation suitable for machine learning models.
     The following are typically used to convert data:
         ◼   Encoding categorical data into numerals for classification
         ◼   Converting numeric data into categorical data to reduce the values of variables (for example, segmenting age
             data)
         ◼   Other data:
               ◼   Embedding words into text to convert them into word vectors (Typically, models such as word2vec and BERT are used.)
               ◼   Image data processing, such as color space conversion, grayscale image conversion, geometric conversion, Haar-like
                   features, and image enhancement
         ◼   Feature engineering:
               ◼   Normalizing and standardizing features to ensure that different input variables of a model fall into the same value range
               ◼   Feature augmentation: combining or converting the existing variables to generate new features, such as averages.




    31       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Necessity of Feature Selection
⚫    Generally, a dataset has many features, some of which may be unnecessary or irrelevant to the
     values to be predicted.
⚫    Feature selection is necessary in the following aspects:


                                                                     Simplifies models
                                                                                         Shortens training
                                                                          for easy
                                                                                               time
                                                                       interpretation




                                                                                         Improves model
                                                                     Avoids the curse     generalization
                                                                     of dimensionality     and avoids
                                                                                            overfitting




    32   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Feature Selection Methods - Filter
⚫     Filter methods are independent of models during feature selection.

                                                                                         By evaluating the correlation between each feature
                                                                                         and target attribute, a filter method scores each
                                                                                         feature using a statistics measurement and then sorts
                                                                                         the features by score. This can preserve or eliminate
                                                                                         specific features.
                                                                                         Common methods:
                                                                                         • Pearson correlation coefficient
                             Selecting the best
    Traversing all
                             feature subset
                                                         Learning           Model        • Chi-square coefficient
    features                                             algorithm          evaluation
                                                                                         • Mutual information
                                                                                         Limitations of filter methods:
                                    Filter method process
                                                                                         • Filter methods tend to select redundant variables
                                                                                           because they do not consider the relationships
                                                                                           between features.



     33    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Feature Selection Methods - Wrapper
⚫     Wrapper methods use a prediction model to score a feature subset.

                                                                                         Wrapper methods treat feature selection as a search
                                                                                         issue and evaluate and compare different
                                                                                         combinations. Wrapper methods use a predictive
                                                                                         model to evaluate the different feature combinations,
                                                                                         and score the feature subsets by model accuracy.
                           Selecting the best feature subset                             Common method:
                                                                                         • Recursive feature elimination
    Traversing all           Generating a                     Learning      Model        Limitations of wrapper methods:
    features                 feature subset                   algorithm     evaluation
                                                                                         • Wrapper methods train a new model for each
                                                                                           feature subset, which can be computationally
                               Wrapper method process                                      intensive.
                                                                                         • Wrapper methods usually provide high-
                                                                                           performance feature sets for a specific type of
                                                                                           model.


    34     Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Feature Selection Methods - Embedded
   ⚫    Embedded methods treat feature selection as a part of the modeling process.

                                                                                                    Regularization is the most common type of
                                                                                                    embedded methods.
                                                                                                    Regularization methods, also called penalization
                                      Selecting the most appropriate feature subset                 methods, introduce additional constraints into the
                                                                                                    optimization of a predictive algorithm to bias the
                                                                                                    model toward lower complexity and reduce the
  Traversing all          Generating a                                       Learning algorithm +   number of features.
  features                feature subset                                     model evaluation



                                                                                                    Common method:
                                                 Embedded method process
                                                                                                    • LASSO regression




       35   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• The penalty attribute of the model is highlighted, which is used to eliminate insignificant
  features.
  Overall Process of Building an AI Model
                                            Model building process

                                                        1                                 2                             3




                                                            Split data               Train the model                Validate the model
                                              Split the dataset into training, Use data that is processed by data   Use the validation set to
                                                validation, and test sets.     cleansing and feature engineering.     evaluate the model
                                                                                                                         effectiveness.

                                                       6                              5                                4




                                                     Tune the model               Deploy the model                   Test the model
                                                  Continuously tune the            Deployed in actual           Use the test set to evaluate
                                                  model based on actual           production scenarios.             the generalization
                                                   data of the service.                                          capability of the model.



    36   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• After data cleansing and feature extraction, we need to start building the model. The
  general procedure for building a model is shown above (supervised learning).
 Supervised Learning Example - Learning Phase
  ⚫    Use a classification model to determine whether a person is a basketball player based on
       specific features.
                                                                                           Features (attributes)        Target (label)

                            Service                                         Name            City               Age            Label
                             data                                           Mike            Miami                  42          yes       Training set
                                                                                                                                         Data used by the model to
                                                                            Jerry           New York               32           no       determine the relationships
             (Cleansed features and labels)
                                                                 Split                                                                   between features and
                                                                            Bryan           Orlando                18           no
                                                                                                                                         targets.
           Task: Use a classification model to                              Patricia        Miami                  45          yes
           determine whether a person is a basketball
           player using specific features                                   Elodie          Phoenix                35           no       Test set
                                                                            Remy            Chicago                72          yes       New data for evaluating
                                                                                                                                         model effectiveness.
                                                                            John            New York               48          yes
                          Train the
                           model                                                       Each feature or set of features provides a
                                                                                       judgment basis for the model.
      37   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Model example
  Supervised Learning Example - Prediction Phase
                                                                Name               City              Age          Label
                                                               Marine             Miami               45            ?
                                                                                                                              Unknown data
                                                                Julien            Miami               52            ?         Recent data cannot
                     New                                                                                                      determine whether they are
                     data                                        Fred            Orlando              20            ?         a basketball player.
                                                             Michelle             Boston              34            ?
                                                               Nicolas           Phoenix              90            ?
                                                                 IF city = Miami → Probability = +0.7
                                                                 IF city= Orlando → Probability = +0.2
                 Apply the                                       IF age > 42 → Probability = +0.05*age + 0.06
                 model                                           IF age <= 42 → Probability = +0.01*age + 0.02

                                                                 Name              City              Age         Prediction
                                                                Marine           Miami               45             0.3
                                              New                                                                             Predicted possibility
                                              data               Julien          Miami               52             0.9       Use the model against new
                                                                                                                              data to predict the
                                                                  Fred          Orlando              20             0.6       possibility of them being
                 Predicted
                                                               Michelle          Boston              34             0.5       basketball players.
                   data
                                                                Nicolas         Phoenix              90             0.4

    38   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Model example

• The model here is similar to the decision tree model.
  What Is a Good Model?


                                                                          • Generalization
                                                                             The accuracy of predictions based on actual data

                                                                          • Explainability
                                                                             Predicted results are easy to explain

                                                                          • Prediction speed
                                                                             The time needed to make a prediction




    39   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Which factors are used to judge a model?

• Generalization capability is the most important.
  Model Effectiveness (1)
  ⚫    Generalization capability: Machine learning aims to ensure models perform well on new
       samples, not just those used for training. Generalization capability, also called robustness, is
       the extent to which a learned model can be applied to new samples.
  ⚫    Error is the difference between the prediction of a learned model on a sample and the actual
       result of the sample.
           ◼   Training error is the error of the model on the training set.
           ◼   Generalization error is the error of the model on new samples. Obviously, we prefer a model
               with a smaller generalization error.
  ⚫    Underfitting: The training error is large.
  ⚫    Overfitting: The training error of a trained model is small while the generalization error is large.




      40       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Once the form of a problem's hypothesis is given, all possible functions constitute a space,
  which is hypothesis space. The problem of machine learning is searching for a suitable
  fitting function in a hypothesis space.

• Overfitting: It occurs frequently in complex mathematical models. To prevent overfitting,
  we can simplify mathematical models, end training before overfitting, or use
  dropout/weight decay methods.

• Underfitting: It occurs if the mathematical model is too simple or the training time is too
  short. To solve the underfitting problem, use a more complex model or extend the training
  time.
  Model Effectiveness (2)
  ⚫    Model capacity, also known as model complexity, is the capability of the model to fit various functions.
           ◼   With sufficient capacity to handle task complexity and training data volumes, the algorithm results are optimal.
           ◼   Models with an insufficient capacity cannot handle complex tasks because underfitting may occur.
           ◼   Models with a large capacity can handle complex tasks, but overfitting may occur when the capacity is greater
               than the amount required by a task.




                                             Underfitting:                                      Overfitting:
                                         features not learned                   Good fitting
                                                                                               noises learned
      41       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• The effective capacity is restricted by algorithms, parameters, and regularization.
  Cause of Overfitting - Errors
  ⚫    Prediction error = Bias2 + Variance + Ineliminable error
  ⚫    In general, the two main factors of prediction error are variance and
                                                                                             Variance
       bias.
  ⚫    Variance:                                                                                        Bias


           ◼   How much a prediction result deviates from the mean
           ◼   Variance is caused by the sensitivity of the model to small fluctuations in
               a training set.
  ⚫    Bias:
           ◼   Difference between the average of the predicted values and the actual
               values.


      42       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• About the ineliminable error

           ▫ Theoretically, if there is infinite amount of data and a perfect model, the error can be
             eliminated.

           ▫ In practice, no model is perfect, and our data volume is limited.
Variance and Bias
⚫    Different combinations of variance and bias are as
     follows:
         ◼   Low bias & low variance ➜ good model
         ◼   Low bias & high variance ➜ inadequate model
         ◼   High bias & low variance ➜ inadequate model
         ◼   High bias & high variance ➜ bad model
⚫    An ideal model can accurately capture the rules in the
     training data and be generalized to invisible (new)
     data. However, it is impossible for a model to complete
     both tasks at the same time.




    43       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Complexity and Errors of Models
⚫    The more complex a model is, the smaller its training error is.
⚫    As the model complexity increases, the test error decreases before increasing again, forming a
     convex curve.



                                                                                               Test error
                                                                    Error




                                                                                               Training error
                                                                            Model complexity




    44   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Performance Evaluation of Machine Learning - Regression
⚫    Mean absolute error (MAE). An MAE value closer to 0 indicates the model fits the training data
     better.
                                                                                        1 m
                                                                           MAE =           yi − yi
                                                                                        m i =1
⚫    Mean squared error (MSE).
                                                                                                               2
                                                 1 m
                                                     ( yi − yi )
                                                 m i =1
                                                                           MSE =
⚫ The value range of 𝑅 2 is [0,1]. A larger value indicates that the model fits the training data


     better. 𝑇𝑆𝑆 indicates the difference between samples, and 𝑅𝑆𝑆 indicates the difference
     between the predicted values and sample values.
                                                                                                 m             2


                                                                                     RSS        ( y − y )
                                                                                                       i   i
                                                                          R2 = 1 −       = 1 − i =1            2
                                                                                     TSS        m

                                                                                                ( y − y )
                                                                                                i =1
                                                                                                       i   i


    45   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Performance Evaluation of Machine Learning - Classification (1)
    ⚫        Terms:
              ◼    𝑃: positive, indicating the number of real positive cases in the data.                              Predicted
              ◼    𝑁: negative, indicating the number of real negative cases in the data.                                             Yes      No        Total
                                                                                                                   Actual
              ◼    𝑇P : true positive, indicating the number of positive cases that are correctly
                                                                                                                        Yes           𝑇𝑃       𝐹𝑁          𝑃
                   classified.
              ◼    𝑇𝑁: true negative, indicating the number of negative cases that are correctly                         No           𝐹𝑃       𝑇𝑁         𝑁
                   classified.
                                                                                                                        Total          𝑃′       𝑁′      𝑃+𝑁
              ◼    𝐹𝑃: false positive, indicating the number of positive cases that are incorrectly
                   classified.
                                                                                                                                   Confusion matrix
              ◼    𝐹𝑁: false negative, indicating the number of negative cases that are incorrectly
                   classified.
⚫        The confusion matrix is an 𝑚 × 𝑚 table at minimum. The entry 𝐶𝑀𝑖,𝑗 in the first 𝑚 rows and 𝑚 columns indicates the number of
         cases that belong to class 𝑖 but are labeled as 𝑗.
                  For classifiers with high accuracy, most of the cases should be represented by entries on the diagonal of the confusion matrix from 𝐶𝑀1,1 to
                   𝐶𝑀𝑚,𝑚 ,while other entries are 0 or close to 0. That is, 𝐹𝑃 and 𝐹𝑁 are close to 0.

        46        Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Performance Evaluation of Machine Learning - Classification (2)
                                     Measurement                                  Formula
                                                                                 𝑇𝑃 + 𝑇𝑁
                     Accuracy, recognition rate
                                                                                  𝑃+𝑁
                                                                                 𝐹𝑃 + 𝐹𝑁
                     Error rate, misclassification rate
                                                                                  𝑃+𝑁
                     True positive rate, sensitivity,                                𝑇𝑃
                     recall                                                           𝑃
                                                                                    𝑇𝑁
                     True negative rate, specificity
                                                                                     𝑁
                                                                                    𝑇𝑃
                     Precision
                                                                                  𝑇𝑃 + 𝐹𝑃
                     𝐹1 value, harmonic mean of                           2 × 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛 × 𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙
                     precision and recall                                   𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛 + 𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙

                     𝐹𝛽 value, where 𝛽 is a non-                       (1 + 𝛽 2 ) × 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛 × 𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙
                     negative real number                                 𝛽 2 × 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛 + 𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙


 47   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Performance Evaluation of Machine Learning - Example
⚫    In this example, an ML model was trained to identify an image of a cat. To evaluate the model's
     performance, 200 images were used, of which 170 of them were cats.
⚫    The model reported that 160 images were cats.
                                               𝑇𝑃                140
              Precision: 𝑃 = 𝑇𝑃+𝐹𝑃 = 140+20 = 87.5%                               Predicted
                                                                                              𝒚𝒆𝒔   𝒏𝒐   Total
                                      𝑇𝑃         140                            Actual
              Recall: 𝑅 = 𝑃 = 170 = 82.4%
                                                                                   𝑦𝑒𝑠        140   30   170
                                                  𝑇𝑃+𝑇𝑁             140+10
              Accuracy: 𝐴𝐶𝐶 =                       𝑃+𝑁
                                                               = 170+30 = 75%      𝑛𝑜         20    10    30


                                                                                   Total      160   40   200




    48   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

     1. Machine Learning Algorithms

     2. Types of Machine Learning

     3. Machine Learning Process

     4. Important Machine Learning Concepts

     5. Common Machine Learning Algorithms




49   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Machine Learning Training Methods - Gradient Descent (1)
  ⚫    This method uses the negative gradient direction
       of the current position as the search direction,
       which is the fastest descent direction of the
       current position. The formula is as follows:


  ⚫
               w  k +1 = w  k −     f w  ( x i
                                                 )
       𝜂 is the learning rate. 𝑖 indicates the 𝑖-th data
                                         k

       record. 𝜂𝛻𝑓𝑤𝑘 (𝑥 𝑖 ) indicates the change of weight
       parameter 𝑤 in each iteration.
  ⚫    Convergence means that the value of the
       objective function changes very little or reaches
       the maximum number of iterations.


      50   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Typically, the gradient descent method shows a decreasing descent in a very small range
  close to the target point, but the gradient may fluctuate in a specific range of the target
  point.
Machine Learning Training Methods - Gradient Descent (2)
⚫    Batch gradient descent (BGD) uses the sum of gradients of all 𝑚 samples of the dataset at the current
     point to update the weight parameter.
                                                                          1 m
                                                            wk +1 = wk −   f wk ( x i )
                                                                          m i =1
⚫    Stochastic gradient descent (SGD) randomly uses the gradient of a random sample of the dataset at the
     current point to update the weight parameter in the current gradient.

                                                                     wk +1 = wk − f wk ( x i )
⚫    Mini-batch gradient descent (MBGD) combines the features of BGD and SGD, and chooses the gradients
     of 𝑛 samples in a dataset each time to update the weight parameter.

                                                                          1 t + n −1
                                                            wk +1 = wk −   f wk ( xi )
                                                                          n i=t
    51   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Machine Learning Training Methods - Gradient Descent (3)
  ⚫    Comparison of gradient descent methods
           ◼   SGD randomly chooses samples for each training pass, causing instability. As a result, the loss
               function fluctuates or even produces reverse displacement during the process of dropping to the
               minimum.
           ◼   BGD is the most stable, but it consumes too many compute resources. MBGD is a balance between
               BGD and SGD.
                                                                                BGD
                                                                                Use all training samples for each training pass.

                                                                                SGD
                                                                                One training sample is used for each training pass.

                                                                                MBGD
                                                                                A certain number of training samples are used for
                                                                                each training pass.

      52       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Reverse displacement is caused by noise data from datasets.

• Some consider BGD and MBSGD as types of SGD.
Parameters and Hyperparameters
⚫    A model contains not only parameters but also hyperparameters. Hyperparameters enable the
     model to learn the optimal configurations of the parameters.
         ◼   Parameters are automatically learned by models.
         ◼   Hyperparameters are manually set.                                          Parameters are
                                                                                        "distilled" from data.



                                                                                          Model




                                                                              Train

                                                                              Use hyperparameters to
                                                                              control training

    53       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Hyperparameters
                   • Commonly used for model parameter                     • λ of Lasso/Ridge regression
                     estimation.                                           • Learning rate, number of iterations,
                   • Specified by the user.                                  batch size, activation function, and
                   • Set heuristically.                                      number of neurons of a neural network
                   • Often tuned for a given predictive                      to be trained
                     modeling problem.                                     • 𝐶 and 𝜎 of support vector machines
                                                                             (SVMs)
                                                                           • k in the k-nearest neighbors (k-NN)
                                                                             algorithm
                                                                           • Number of trees in a random forest


                   Hyperparameters are
                                                                           Common
                   configurations outside
                                                                           hyperparameters
                   the model.



    54    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Parameters are a part of a model that is learned from historical training data and key to
  machine learning algorithms. They have the following characteristics:

         ▫ They are required by a model to make predictions.

         ▫ Their values define the model functions.

         ▫ They are learned or estimated from data.

         ▫ They are often not set manually by the user.

         ▫ They are often saved as a part of the learned model.

• Examples:

         ▫ Weights in an artificial neural network

         ▫ Support vectors in a SVM

         ▫ Coefficients in linear regression or logistic regression
Hyperparameter Search Process and Methods

                                                 1. Divide a dataset into a training set, validation set, and test set.
                                                 2. Optimize the model parameters using the training set based on the model
                                                    performance metrics.
                                                 3. Search for model hyperparameters using the validation set based on model
          Hyperparameter                            performance metrics.
           search general                        4. Perform step 2 and step 3 alternately until model parameters and
              process                               hyperparameters are determined, and assess the model using the test set.


                                                 •Grid search
                                                 •Random search
                                                 •Heuristic intelligent search
           Search algorithms                     •Bayesian search
                (step 3)




 55   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Hyperparameter Tuning Methods - Grid Search
⚫    Grid search performs an exhaustive search of all possible hyperparameter
     combinations to form a hyperparameter value grid.
                                                                                                                      Grid search
⚫    In practice, the hyperparameter ranges and steps are
                                                                                                          5
     manually specified.




                                                                                       Hyperparameter 1
                                                                                                          4

⚫    Grid search is expensive and time-consuming.
                                                                                                          3

            This method works well when there are relatively few
                                                                                                          2

             hyperparameters. Therefore, it is feasible for general machine learning
                                                                                                          1
             algorithms, but not for neural networks (see the deep learning course).
                                                                                                              0   1     2    3      4   5


                                                                                                                  Hyperparameter 2


    56       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Hyperparameter Tuning Methods - Random Search
⚫    If the hyperparameter search space is large, random search is
     more appropriate than grid search.
                                                                                                             Random search
⚫    In a random search, each setting item is sampled from possible
     parameter values to find the most appropriate parameter
     subset.




                                                                                         Hyperparameter 1
⚫    Note:
         ◼   In a random search, a search is first performed within a broad range, and
             then the range is narrowed based on the location of the best result.
         ◼   Some hyperparameters are more important than others and affect random
             search preferences.
                                                                                                            Hyperparameter 2




    57       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Cross-Validation (1)
   ⚫    Cross-validation is a statistical analysis method used to check the performance of classifiers. It splits the original
        data into the training set and validation set. The former is used to train a classifier, whereas the latter is used to
        evaluate the classifier by testing the trained model.
   ⚫    k-fold cross-validation (k-fold CV):
            ◼   Divides the original data into 𝑘 (usually equal-sized) subsets.
            ◼   Each unique group is treated as a validation set, and the remaining 𝑘 − 1 groups are treated as the training set.
                In this way, 𝑘 models are obtained.
            ◼   The average classification accuracy score of the 𝑘 models on the validation set is used as the performance metric
                for k-fold CV classifiers.




       58       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• After a dataset is divided into a fixed training set and a fixed test set, if the test set error is
  small, there is a problem. A small test set implies statistical uncertainty around the
  estimated mean test error, making it difficult to claim that 𝐴 algorithm works better than 𝐵
  algorithm on the given task. When the dataset has hundreds of thousands of samples or
  more, this is not a serious problem. When the dataset is too small, alternative procedures
  enable one to use all the samples in the estimation of the mean test error, at the price of
  increased computational workload.

• In k-fold CV, 𝑘 is typically greater than or equal to 2. It usually starts from 3 and is set to 2
  only when the original dataset is small. k-fold CV can effectively avoid over-learning and
  under-learning, and the final result is also persuasive.
Cross-Validation (2)

                                                                               Full dataset




                                                                       Training set                            Test set




                                                       Training set                           Validation set   Test set



                ⚫     Note: k in k-fold CV is a hyperparameter.



 59   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

     1. Machine Learning Algorithms

     2. Types of Machine Learning

     3. Machine Learning Process

     4. Important Machine Learning Concepts

     5. Common Machine Learning Algorithms




60   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Machine Learning Algorithm Overview
                                                                               Machine learning


                                 Supervised learning                                                           Unsupervised learning


                Classification                                  Regression                        Clustering                           Other

              Logistic regression                            Linear regression                k-means clustering                 Association rule
                                                                                                                           Principal component analysis
                       SVM                                              SVM                 Hierarchical clustering

               Neural network                                 Neural network               Density-based clustering         Gaussian mixture modeling

                 Decision tree                                 Decision tree

                Random forest                                 Random forest
      Gradient boosted decision tree
                                                                        GBDT
                 (GBDT)
                       k-NN                                             k-NN

                  Naive Bayes


 61    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Linear Regression (1)
  ⚫    Linear regression uses the regression analysis of mathematical statistics to determine the
       quantitative relationship between two or more variables.
  ⚫    Linear regression is a type of supervised learning.




                               Simple linear regression                     Multiple linear regression

      62   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• 𝑥Simple linear regression analysis refers to regression analysis where only one independent
  variable and one dependent variable exist, and their relationship can be approximately
  represented by a straight line. Multiple linear regression analysis involves two or more
  independent variables and the relationship between independent variables and dependent
  variables is linear. The linear regression model is a straight line only when the variable x is
  one-dimensional. It is a hyperplane when this variable is multi-dimensional. For example,
  the price of an apartment is determined by a variety of factors such as the area, layout, and
  location. Prediction of the apartment price based on these factors can be abstracted into a
  linear regression problem.

• The above figures show polynomial linear regression.
Linear Regression (2)
⚫    The model function of linear regression is as follows, where 𝑤 is the weight parameter, 𝑏 is the bias, and 𝑥
     represents the sample:                                      T
                                                                              hw ( x) = w x + b
⚫    The relationship between the value predicted by the model and the actual value is as follows, where 𝑦 indicates the
     actual value, and 𝜀 indicates the error:
                                                         T
                                                                              y = w x +b+
⚫    The error 𝜀 is affected by many independent factors. Linear regression assumes that the error 𝜀 follows normal
     distribution. The loss function of linear regression can be obtained using the normal distribution function and
     maximum likelihood estimation (MLE):
                                                                                      1
                                                                          J ( w) =       ( hw ( x) − y )
                                                                                                          2

                                                                                     2m
⚫    We want the predicted value approaches the actual value as far as possible, that is, to minimize the loss value. We
     can use a gradient descent algorithm to calculate the weight parameter 𝑤 when the loss function reaches the
     minimum, thereby complete model building.
    63   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Linear Regression Extension - Polynomial Regression
⚫    Polynomial regression is an extension of linear regression. Because the complexity of a dataset
     exceeds the possibility of fitting performed using a straight line (obvious underfitting occurs if
     the original linear regression model is used), polynomial regression is used.


                      hw ( x ) = w1 x + w2 x 2 +                             + wn x n + b
         Here, 𝑛-th power indicates the degree of the
         polynomial.

         Polynomial regression is a type of linear
         regression. Although its features are non-linear,
         the relationship between its weight parameters 𝑤
                                                                                            Comparison between linear and polynomial regression
         is still linear.
    64      Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Preventing Overfitting of Linear Regression
⚫    Regularization terms help reduce overfitting. The 𝑤 value cannot be too large or too small in
     the sample space. You can add a square sum loss to the target function:
                                                                               1
                                                                     𝐽(𝑤) =      ෍ ℎ𝑤 (𝑥) − 𝑦 2 + 𝜆 𝑤 22
                                                                              2𝑚
⚫    Regularization term: This regularization term is called L2-norm. Linear regression that uses this
     loss function is called Ridge regression.
                                                                               1
                                                                    𝐽(𝑤) =       ෍ ℎ𝑤 (𝑥) − 𝑦 2 + 𝜆 𝑤 1
                                                                              2𝑚
⚫    Linear regression with an absolute loss is called Lasso regression.




    65   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Logistic Regression (1)
⚫    The logistic regression model is a classification model used to resolve classification problems. The model
     is defined as follows:
                                                                                       𝑒 −(𝑤𝑥+𝑏)
                                                                          𝑃 𝑌=0𝑥 =
                                                                                     1 + 𝑒 −(𝑤𝑥+𝑏)
                                                                                           1
                                                                          𝑃 𝑌=1𝑥 =
                                                                                     1 + 𝑒 −(𝑤𝑥+𝑏)
𝑤 represents the weight, 𝑏 represents the bias, and 𝑤𝑥 + 𝑏 represents a linear function with respect to 𝑥.
Compare the preceding two probability values. 𝑥 belongs to the type with a larger probability value.




    66   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Logistic Regression (2)
  ⚫    Logistic regression and linear regression are both linear models in broad sense. The former
       introduces a non-linear factor (sigmoid function) on the basis of the latter and sets a threshold.
       Therefore, logistic regression applies to binary classification.
  ⚫    According to the model function of logistic regression, the loss function of logistic regression
       can be calculated through maximum likelihood estimation as follows:
                                                                   1
                                             J ( w) = -
                                                                   m
                                                                      ( y ln hw ( x) + (1 − y) ln(1 − hw ( x)) )
  ⚫    In the formula, 𝑤 indicates the weight parameter, 𝑚 indicates the number of samples, 𝑥
       indicates the sample, and 𝑦 indicates the actual value. You can also obtain the values of all the
       weight parameters 𝑤 by using a gradient descent algorithm.



      67   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Overfitting of logistic regression can also be prevented by adding regularization terms.
Logistic Regression Extension - Softmax (1)
⚫    Logistic regression mainly applies to binary classification. For multi-class classification, the
     softmax function is typically used.

                     Binary classification problem                        Multi-class classification problem


                                                                                                    Grape?


                                                       Boy?                                         Orange?


                                                                                                    Apple?


                                                         Girl?                                      Banana?


    68   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Logistic Regression Extension - Softmax (2)
⚫    Softmax regression is a generalization of logistic regression and applies to k-class classification.
⚫    The softmax function compresses (maps) a k-dimensional vector of arbitrary real values to
     another k-dimensional vector of real values, where each vector element is in (0, 1).
⚫    The Softmax regression probability function is:



                                                                                 T
                                                                            e wk x
                                                  p( y = k | x; w) = K                       , k = 1, 2   ,K
                                                                          e
                                                                          l =1
                                                                                     wlT x




    69   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Logistic Regression Extension - Softmax (3)
⚫    Softmax assigns a probability value to each class in a multi-class classification problem. The sum
     of all the probabilities is 1.
         ◼   Softmax may present the generated classes as follows:

                                                                              Class   Probability
                                                                          Grape?          0.09

                                                                                                    • Sum of all probabilities:
                                                                          Orange?         0.22
                                                                                                        • 0.09 + 0.22 + 0.68 + 0.01 =1
                                                                                                    • The most possible object in the
                                                                          Apple?          0.68        image: Apple

                                                                          Banana?         0.01

    70       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Decision Tree
  ⚫    Each non-leaf node of the decision tree denotes a test on an attribute; each branch represents the output of a test;
       and each leaf (or terminal) node holds a class label. The algorithm starts at the root node (topmost node in the
       tree), tests the selected attributes on the intermediate (internal) nodes, and generates branches according to the
       output of the tests. Then, it saves the class labels on the leaf nodes as the decision results.
                                                                                               Root node

                                                                                      Small                  Large


                                                             Does not                               Short-                 Long-
                                                              squeak                   Squeaks      necked                necked

                                                                                               Short-                Long-
                                                 It could be a                                 nosed                 nosed       It could be a
                                                                              It could be a
                                                    squirrel.                                                                        giraffe.
                                                                                   rat.
                                                                                    Stays on            Stays in     It could be an
                                                                                      land               water          elephant.

                                                                            It could be a rhino.    It could be a hippo.
      71   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• How to construct a decision tree is very important. We should determine the topological
  structure of feature attributes based on attribute selection measures. The key step is to
  split attributes. That is, different branches are constructed based on the differences of a
  feature attribute on a node.

• The common learning algorithms used to generate a decision tree include ID3, C4.5, and
  CART.
  Structure of a Decision Tree

                                                                                Root node




                                                   Subnode
                                                                                                    Subnode




                             Leaf node                             Leaf node            Subnode                Leaf node




                                                                    Leaf node           Leaf node        Leaf node


    72   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• All nodes except the root node are called leaf nodes.
Key to Decision Tree Construction
⚫    A decision tree requires feature attributes and an appropriate tree structure. The key step of
     constructing a decision tree is to divide data of all feature attributes, compare the result sets in terms of
     purity, and select the attribute with the highest purity as the data point for dataset division.
⚫    Purity is measured mainly through the information entropy and GINI coefficient. The formula is as
     follows:
                                                                     K                                                       K
                                                   H ( X )= - pk log 2 ( pk )                              Gini = 1 −  pk2
                                                                    k =1                    2                               k =12
                                            𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑗,𝑠 [𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑐1                  ෍      𝑦𝑖 − 𝑐1       + 𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑐2      ෍         𝑦𝑖 − 𝑐2      ]
                                                                     𝑥𝑖 ∈𝑅1 𝑗,𝑠                           𝑥𝑖 ∈𝑅2 𝑗,𝑠

⚫    𝑝𝑘 indicates the probability that a sample belongs to category 𝑘 (in a total of K categories). A larger purity difference
     between the sample before and after division indicates a better decision tree.
⚫    Common decision tree algorithms include ID3, C4.5, and CART.


    73   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Decision Tree Construction Process
⚫    Feature selection: Select one of the features of the training data as the split standard of the
     current node. (Different standards distinguish different decision tree algorithms.)
⚫    Decision tree generation: Generate subnodes from top down based on the selected feature
     and stop until the dataset can no longer be split.
⚫    Pruning: The decision tree may easily become overfitting unless necessary pruning (including
     pre-pruning and post-pruning) is performed to reduce the tree size and optimize its node
     structure.




    74   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Decision Tree Example
⚫    The following figure shows a decision tree for a classification problem. The classification result is affected
     by three attributes: refund, marital status, and taxable income.

         TID        Refund               Marital                 Taxable   Cheat
                                         Status                  Income
                                                                                         Refund
          1            Yes                Single                   125K     No
          2            No               Married                    100K     No
                                                                                                    Marital
          3            No                 Single                    70K     No     No               Status
          4            Yes              Married                    120K     No
          5            No               Divorced                    95K     Yes
                                                                                          Taxable
          6            No               Married                     60K     No            Income              No
          7            Yes              Divorced                   220K     No
          8            No                 Single                    85K     Yes     No               Yes
          9            No               Married                     75K     No
         10            No                 Single                    90K     Yes

    75   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Support Vector Machine
  ⚫    Support vector machines (SVMs) are binary classification models. Their basic model is the linear classifier
       that maximizes the width of the gap between the two categories in the feature space. SVMs also have a
       kernel trick, which makes it a non-linear classifier. The learning algorithm of SVMs is the optimal
       algorithm for convex quadratic programming.




                                                                                                            Mapping




                                                                             Difficult to split in a low-             Easy to split in a high-
                                                                                dimensional space.                     dimensional space.




      76    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• The main ideas of SVMs are:

           ▫ In the case of linear inseparability, non-linear mapping algorithms are used to
             convert the linearly inseparable samples of low-dimensional input space into samples
             of high-dimensional feature space. In this way, samples become linearly separable.
             Then the linear algorithm can be used to analyze the non-linear features of samples.

           ▫ Based on the structural risk minimization principle, an optimal hyperplane is
             constructed in the feature space, so that the learner is optimized globally, and the
             expectation of the whole sample space satisfies an upper boundary with a certain
             probability.
Linear SVM (1)
⚫    How can we divide the red and blue data points with just one line?




                                                                                                     or




               Two-dimensional data set with                              Both the division methods on the left and right can divide
               two sample categories                                                      data. But which is correct?




    77   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Linear SVM (2)
⚫    We can use different straight lines to divide data into different categories. SVMs find a straight line and
     keep the most nearby points as far from the line as possible. This gives the model a strong generalization
     capability. These most nearby points are called support vectors.
⚫    In the two-dimensional space, a straight line is used for division; in the high-dimensional space, a
     hyperplane is used for division.




                                                                                              Maximize the
                                                                                              distance from each
                                                                                              support vector to
                                                                                              the line



    78   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Non-linear SVM (1)
⚫    How can we divide a linear inseparable data set?




         Linear SVM works well on a linear                                A non-linear data set cannot
                 separable data set.                                       be divided using a straight
                                                                                      line.


    79   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Non-linear SVM (2)
  ⚫    Kernel functions can be used to create non-linear SVMs.
  ⚫    Kernel functions allow algorithms to fit a maximum-margin hyperplane in a transformed high-
       dimensional feature space.
                         Common kernel functions


                                                            Polynomial
                            Linear kernel
                                                              kernel




                               Gaussian                        Sigmoid
                                kernel                          kernel      Input space   High-dimensional
                                                                                          feature space


      80   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• The Gaussian kernel function is the most frequently used.
k-Nearest Neighbors Algorithm (1)
⚫    The k-nearest neighbor (k-NN) classification algorithm
     is a theoretically mature method and one of the
     simplest machine learning algorithms. The idea of k-
     NN classification is that, if most of k closest samples
     (nearest neighbors) of a sample in the feature space                                   ?
     belong to a category, the sample also belongs to this
     category.




                                                                          The category of point ? varies according
                                                                          to how many neighbor nodes are chosen.



    81   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
k-Nearest Neighbors Algorithm (2)
⚫    The logic of k-NN is simple: If an object's k nearest neighbors belong to a class, so does the
     object.
⚫    k-NN is a non-parametric method and is often used for datasets with irregular decision
     boundaries.
         ◼   k-NN typically uses the majority voting method to predict classification, and uses the mean value
             method to predict regression.
⚫    k-NN requires a very large amount of computing.




    82       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
k-Nearest Neighbors Algorithm (3)
⚫    Typically, a larger k value reduces the impact of noise on classification, but makes the boundary between
     classes less obvious.
         ◼   A large k value indicates a higher probability of underfitting because the division is too rough; while a small k
             value indicates a higher probability of overfitting because the division is too refined.



                                                                              •   As seen from the figure, the boundary
                                                                                  becomes smoother as the k value
                                                                                  increases.
                                                                              •   As the k value increases, the points will
                                                                                  eventually become all blue or all red.




    83       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Naive Bayes (1)
  ⚫    Naive Bayes classifiers are a family of simple "probabilistic classifiers" based on Bayes' theorem with strong
       independence assumptions between the features. For a given sample feature 𝑋, the probability that the sample
       belongs to category 𝐻 is:

                                                                                                        P ( X 1 ,  , X n | Ck ) P ( C k )
                                                                           P ( Ck | X 1 ,  , X n ) =
                                                                                                               P ( X 1 , , X n )

           ◼   𝑋1 , 𝑋2 , … , 𝑋𝑛 are data features, which are usually described by m measurement values of the attribute set.
               ◼     For example, the attribute of the color feature may be red, yellow, and blue.

           ◼   𝐶𝑘 indicates that the data belongs to a specific class 𝐶.
           ◼   𝑃(𝐶𝑘 |𝑋1 , 𝑋2 , … , 𝑋𝑛 ) is the posterior probability, or the posterior probability of 𝐻 under condition 𝐶𝑘 .
           ◼   P(𝐶𝑘 ) is the prior probability independent of 𝑋1 , 𝑋2 , … , 𝑋𝑛 .
           ◼   𝑃(𝑋1 , 𝑋2 , … , 𝑋𝑛 ) is the prior probability of 𝑋.



      84       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Class conditional independence: The Bayes classifier assumes that the effect of an attribute
  value on a given class is independent of the values of other attributes. This assumption is
  made to simplify the calculation and becomes "naive" in this sense.

• Bayes classifiers show high accuracy and speed when applied to large databases.
Naive Bayes (2)
⚫    Feature independent hypothesis example:
         ◼   If a fruit is red, round, and about 10 cm in diameter, it can be considered an apple.
         ◼   A Naive Bayes classifier believes that each of these features independently contributes to the
             probability of the fruit being an apple, regardless of any possible correlation between color,
             roundness, and diameter features.




    85       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Ensemble Learning
⚫    Ensemble learning is a machine learning paradigm in which multiple learners are trained and combined to resolve an
     issue. When multiple learners are used, the generalization capability of the ensemble can be much stronger than
     that of a single learner.
⚫    For example, If you ask thousands of people at random a complex question and then summarize their answers, the
     summarized answer is more accurate than an expert's answer in most cases. This is the wisdom of the crowd.

                                                                             Training set


                                                            Dataset 1     Dataset 2         Dataset m



                                                              Model 1      Model 2          Model m




                                                                                                        Large
                                                                          Ensemble                      model



    86   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Types of Ensemble Learning


                                                                          Example: random forest
                                                              Bagging     • Bagging independently builds multiple basic learners and then
                                                                            averages their predictions.
                                                                          • On average, an ensemble learner is usually better than a
                                                                            single-base learner because of a smaller variance.
      Ensemble learning


                                                                          Example: AdaBoost, GBDT, XGBoost
                                                               Boosting   Bagging builds basic learners in sequence and gradually
                                                                          reduces the biases of the ensemble learner. An ensemble
                                                                          learner has a strong fitting capability but may overfit.



 87    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Ensemble Learning - Random Forest
  ⚫    Random forest = Bagging + Classification and regression tree (CART)
  ⚫    Random forest builds multiple decision trees and aggregates their results to make prediction more accurate and
       stable.
           ◼   The random forest algorithm can be used for classification and regression problems.
                                 Bootstrap sampling        Build trees      Aggregate results

                                                       Subset 1                 Prediction 1



                                                       Subset 2                 Prediction 2         • Classification:
                                                                                                       majority voting
       All training data                                                                                                 Final prediction
                                                                                                     • Regression:
                                                                                Prediction
                                                                                                       mean value



                                                      Subset n                  Prediction n

      88       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Bootstrap bagging is based on sampling with replacement.
Ensemble learning - Gradient Boosted Decision Tree
⚫    Gradient boosted decision tree (GBDT) is a type of boosting algorithm.
⚫    The prediction result of the ensemble model is the sum of results of all base learners. The essence of GBDT is that
     the next base learner tries to fit the residual of the error function to the prediction value, that is, the residual is the
     error between the prediction value and the actual value.
⚫    During GBDT model training, the loss function value of the sample predicted by the model must be as small as
     possible.
                                                                          Predict
                                                   30                                   20
                                                                      Calculate
                                                                      residual
                                                                                     Predict
                                                                            10                  9
                                                                                    Calculate
                                                                                    residual
                                                                                                Predict
                                                                                         1                1


    89   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Unsupervised Learning - k-Means Clustering
⚫    k-means clustering takes the number of clusters k and a dataset of n objects as inputs, and outputs k
     clusters with minimized within-cluster variances.
⚫    In the k-means algorithm, the number of clusters is k, and n data objects are split into k clusters. The
     obtained clusters meet the following requirements: high similarity between objects in the same cluster,
     and low similarity between objects in different clusters.
             x1                                                                                        x1

                                                                          k-means clustering



                                                                              k-means clustering
                                                                            automatically classifies
                                                                                unlabeled data.
                                                               x2                                           x2




    90   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Unsupervised Learning - Hierarchical Clustering
⚫    Hierarchical clustering divides a dataset at different layers and forms a tree-like clustering structure. The
     dataset division may use a "bottom-up" aggregation policy, or a "top-down" splitting policy. The
     hierarchy of clustering is represented in a tree diagram. The root is the only cluster of all samples, and
     the leaves are clusters of single samples.




    91   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Summary

     ⚫   This course first describes the definition and types of machine learning, as well as
         problems machine learning solves. Then, it introduces key knowledge points of
         machine learning, including the overall procedure (data preparation, data cleansing,
         feature selection, model evaluation, and model deployment), common algorithms
         (including linear regression, logistic regression, decision tree, SVM, Naive Bayes, k-
         NN, ensemble learning, and k-means clustering), and hyperparameters.




92   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
        Quiz

        1.     (Single-answer) Which of the following is not a supervised learning algorithm? (   )
             A. Linear regression
             B. Decision tree
             C. k-NN
             D. k-means clustering
        2. (True or false) Gradient descent is the only method of machine learning. (    )




   93   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Answers: 1. D 2. False
     Recommendations

     ⚫   Huawei Talent
               https://e.huawei.com/en/talent/portal/#/

     ⚫   Huawei knowledge base
               https://support.huawei.com/enterprise/en/knowledge?lang=en




94   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Thank you.   把数字世界带入每个人、每个家庭、
             每个组织，构建万物互联的智能世界。
             Bring digital to every person, home, and
             organization for a fully connected,
             intelligent world.

             Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

             The information in this document may contain predictive
             statements including, without limitation, statements regarding
             the future financial and operating results, future product
             portfolio, new technology, etc. There are a number of factors that could
             cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those
             expressed or implied in the predictive statements. Therefore, such
             information is provided for reference purpose only and constitutes
             neither an offer nor an acceptance. Huawei may change the information
             at any time without notice.
Basics of Deep Learning and Foundation Models
    Foreword
     ⚫     In today's digital era, explosive data growth and significant improvements in
           computing power have enabled unprecedented development opportunities in the AI
           industry. Deep learning is an important branch of this industry.
     ⚫     As research develops and technologies progress, a shallow deep learning architecture
           has been replaced with a deeper one, giving rise to foundation models. Foundation
           models are extremely large neural networks with a more complex structure. Due to
           their excellent expressiveness, foundation models have outperformed most other
           methods of image generation, speech recognition, and text generation.
     ⚫     This chapter explains the basics of neural networks and foundation models.



2   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
    Objectives

     ⚫      Upon completing this course, you will be able to understand:
                  Deep learning basics
                  The basic architecture of convolutional neural networks
                  The basic architecture of recurrent neural networks
                  The transformer architecture
                  The architectures of common foundation models




3   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
    Contents

     1. Perceptron

     2. Fully-connected Neural Network and How It Is Trained

     3. Convolutional Neural Network

     4. Model Architecture Based on the Recurrent Neural Network

     5. Transformer Architecture

     6. Basic Foundation Model Architecture



4   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Traditional Machine Learning

                                                                                        Problem
                                                                                        analysis
                                                                                        Task locating




                                                                         Data             Feature             Feature
                                                                         cleansing        extraction          selection




                                                                                          Machine
                                                                                          learning
                                                                                          algorithm

                                      Question: Can you
                                      use an algorithm to
                                      automatically execute                          Inference, prediction,
                                      the procedure?                                 and identification



    5   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Problem analysis and task locating: Locate the problem, convert the problem into a
  machine learning problem, determine required data, and then collect the required data.
  This part includes data exploration, scenario abstraction, and algorithm selection. For
  example, logistic regression can be used to determine whether we can drink coffee, and the
  Naive Bayes algorithm can be used to distinguish junk mails from normal ones. AI systems
  do not directly detect but gather data from doctors, such as human body's tolerance to
  caffeine and whether it causes sleeplessness.

• Data cleansing: Data cleansing is the process of rechecking and validating data to remove
  duplicate information, correct errors, and ensure data consistency. Adoption (random,
  systematic, and layered), normalization, noise removal, and data filtering

• Feature extraction: feature abstraction, feature importance evaluation, feature derivation,
  and feature dimension reduction

• Feature selection

• Model training

• Inference, prediction, and identification

• Generally, features are manually selected in machine learning. More features
   provide more information and higher identification accuracy.
• However, more features also increase the computation complexity and search
   space. Training data appears to be sparse in the overall feature vectors,
affecting similarity determination, that is, dimension exploration.
  What Is a Perceptron?
  ⚫       A perceptron receives multiple input signals and outputs one signal.

                                                                             ⚫   The figure on the left shows an example of a perceptron that receives two
                                                                                 input signals. x1 and x2 are the input signals, y is the output signal, and w1
                           x1                    w1                              and w2 are the weights.


                                                                      y1     ⚫   The circles in the figure are neurons or nodes. When the input signals are
                                                  w2                             sent to the neuron, they are multiplied by a fixed weight (w1 x 1 and w2 x
                                                                                 2). The neuron calculates the sum of the input signals and outputs 1 only
                           x2                                                    when the sum exceeds a certain threshold. This is also called neuron
                                                                                 activation.




      6     Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• In 1957, Frank Rosenblatt at the aviation lab of the Cornell University invented the
  perceptron artificial neural network. Considered a simplest form of a feedforward neural
  network model, the network is a binary linear classifier. Its activation function is a sign
  function sign (x). The perceptron is the first practical application of the artificial neural
  network, marking a new stage of neural network development. After implementing the
  perceptron with software, Frank Rosenblatt started to build the hardware perceptron
  MarkI. He used 400 optoelectronic devices as neurons and adjustable potentiometers as
  synaptic weights. Motors are used to adjust potentiometers to implement weight changes
  during learning. He built the hardware perceptron in this way and used it for image
  recognition. Due to technical limitations at that time, perceptrons based on physical
   implementation are rare. This image recognition system drew attention from many parties
   and received a large amount of fund from the U.S. Navy.

• Signals mentioned here can be seen as something that has mobility like an electric current
  or a river. Similar to an electric current in a wire sending electrons forward, perceptron
  signals form a flow and transmit information forward. The difference from an electric
  current is that a perceptron signal has only two values, current (1) and no current (0). In
  this document, 0 indicates that no signal is transmitted, and 1 indicates that signals are
  transmitted.
Mathematical Representation of a Perceptron
⚫       Input signals of the perceptron have their own inherent weights, which determine the
        importance of each signal. A larger weight indicates that the signal is more important.




A weight is similar to the resistance in an electric circuit. Resistance determines how difficult it is for current to flow. The lower the
resistance, the larger the current flowing through. When it comes to the perceptron, a larger weight indicates a larger signal that
passes through the perceptron. Resistance and weight play the same role in controlling the signal flow difficulty (or ease).




    7     Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Using a Perceptron to Simulate a Simple Logic Circuit
  ⚫       Forms of logic circuits




                         AND gate                                                   NAND gate                   OR gate




              (w1, w2, θ) = (0.5, 0.5, 0.7)                                  (w1, w2, θ) = (−0.5, −0.5, −0.7)      (w1, w2, θ) = ?


      8     Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• In the logic circuit, the output -1 is changed to

• What other value combinations meet different gates?

• AND gate: (0.5, 0.5, 0.8) or (1.0, 1.0, 1.0)
  How To Use a Single-layer Perceptron To Solve the XOR Problem

  ⚫       When the OR gate truth table is expressed in a two-dimensional                    ⚫   The XOR gate is also referred to as a logical XOR circuit. The output is 1
          coordinate system, the single-layer perceptron linearly separates the                 only when either x1 or x2 is 1.
          two types of values.                                                              ⚫   Can we use a single-layer perceptron to distinguish between 0 and 1 in
                                                                                                an XOR gate?


                               x2                                                               x2                      XOR gate
                                                               OR gate




                1

                                                                              x1                                                 x1                 XOR truth table
                0                           and represent different data. A single-layer
                                           perceptron is a linear problem. We can use a                  and represent the output of the
                                           straight line to divide the data and implement                XOR gate. Can we divide the output
                                           the classification function.                                  with a straight line?
      9      Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• The two lines may be separated, leading to two layers.
How To Use the AND, NAND, and OR Gates To Implement the XOR
Gate
⚫    If a single-layer perceptron cannot solve the XOR problem, can we combine implemented logic circuit gates to
     implement the XOR gate?




                     AND gate                                                     NAND gate                                   OR gate



                                                                                        ？
                                                                                                             ？
                                                                                        ？
                                                               Replace the question marks (?) with the AND gate, NAND gate,
                                                               and OR gate to implement the XOR gate.
    10   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Implementation of the XOR Gate — Two-layer Perceptron



      x1                                                               s1




                                                                       s2
      x2




           The XOR gate can be implemented by                               Truth table of the XOR gate
           combining the AND, NAND, and OR gates.                           implementation process


 11   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Multi-layer Perceptron
⚫    Convert the previous logic gate representation into a perceptron representation:



         Layer 0                                         Layer 1          Layer 2



                                                                                    1. The two neurons at layer 0 receive an input signal and
            x1                                            s1
                                                                                       send it to a neuron at layer 1.

                                                                                    2. The neuron at layer 1 sends the signal to the neuron at
                                                                          y1
                                                                                       layer 2, which then outputs y.

            x2                                            s2




    12   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Nonlinearity
⚫    To solve the XOR problem, a non-linear curve is required to separate 0 and 1 to simulate the
     XOR gate effect.


                                      x2                                  XOR gate
                                                                                          ⚫   Question: How does a multi-layer
                                                                                              perceptron      transform     the
                                                                                              perceptron function from linear to
                                                                                              nonlinear?
                                                                                     x1




    13   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Source of Nonlinearity of a Multi-layer Perceptron — More Layers
⚫    A multi-layer perceptron can solve complex problems for the following reasons:
              More layers

                                                                                    1 𝑥>0
                             x1                                       𝑠𝑖𝑔𝑛 𝑥 = ቊ                          a1
                                                                                   −1 𝑥 ≤ 0


                                                                                                                             1 𝑥>0
                             x2                                       𝑠𝑖𝑔𝑛 𝑥 = ቊ
                                                                                    1 𝑥>0              a2      𝑠𝑖𝑔𝑛 𝑥 = ቊ
                                                                                                                            −1 𝑥 ≤ 0
                                                                                                                                              y
                                                                                   −1 𝑥 ≤ 0



                            𝜽𝟏                                                                         𝜽𝟐



                          Input layer                                                   Middle layer                           Output layer

                                                                                     3-layer perceptron

    14       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Source of Nonlinearity of a Multi-layer Perceptron — Nonlinear
Activation Function
           A non-linear function is used to process the output.
                                                                                                        The sign function determines whether the neuron is
                                                                                                        activated based on the output in the previous phase.    The final output is
                                                              The weighted sum of multiple               Therefore, the function used in this phase is called
                                                                                                                                                                changed to -1 or 1.
                                                                  inputs is still a linear                            the activation function.
                 x1               w1                                representation.



                                  w2
                 x2                                                                                              𝑠𝑖𝑔𝑛 𝑥 = ቊ
                                                                                                                                  1 𝑥>0                                y
                                                                                                                                 −1 𝑥 ≤ 0


                                                θ is the threshold that indicates the level of difficulty to activate the
                                                neuron. Now, move it to the left of the formula and use it as part of
                                                the input for the next calculation.


                                                                   Calculation process of a single-layer perceptron

 15       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
The Importance of Multi-layer Perceptrons and Nonlinear Activation
Functions                                  The sign function only
                         x1                                                                                            determines the output type.
                                       w1
                                     w2
                        x2                                                                                  y


                                              If a single-layer perceptron is used, this formula is decisive for discrimination, and it is a linear classifier.


                                                                                                                If the sign function is not used at the middle layer:
                 x1                                                    a1
                                                                                                                𝑎1 = 𝑥1 ∗ 𝑤1 + 𝑥2 ∗ 𝑤2 + 𝜃1 – linear

                 x2                                                    a2                              y        𝑎2= 𝑥1 ∗ 𝑤3 + 𝑥2 ∗ 𝑤4 + 𝜃1 – linear

                                                                                                                The final output is as follows:

                                                                                                                𝑎1 ∗ 𝑤5 + 𝑎2 ∗ 𝑤6 + 𝜃2 =
                                                                                                                           𝑤5 𝑥1 ∗ 𝑤1 + 𝑥2 ∗ 𝑤2 + 𝜃1
                                                                                                                           + 𝑤6 𝑥1 ∗ 𝑤3 + 𝑥2 ∗ 𝑤4 + 𝜃1 + 𝜃2

 16   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents
      1.       Perceptron
      2.       Fully-connected Neural Network and How It Is Trained
              ◼     Deep Neural Network
                   Common Activation Functions
                   Neural Network Training
                   Optimizers
                   Regularization
      3.       Convolutional Neural Network
      4.       Model Architecture Based on the Recurrent Neural Network
      5.       Transformer Architecture
      6.       Basic Foundation Model Architecture


17   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Perceptron Capability Improvement
⚫    We have seen the ability of multi-layer perceptrons to solve complex problems (fitting complex functions). However,
     its middle layer has only two units, and it can only solve binary classification problems.
⚫    Can this ability be further improved if we continue to increase the number of nodes at the middle layer and the
     number of network layers?



                           x1
                                                                                                                            -1

                                                                                                ...

                                                                                         ...
                           x2

                                                                                                                            1




                   Input layer                                            Middle layer         Added layer   Output layer

    18   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Deep Neural Network
  ⚫    Generally, the deep learning architecture is a deep neural network. The depth refers to the
       number of layers in the neural network.                                                                           Input layer




                                                                                                                          Hidden layer



                                                                            Input   Middle       Output
                                                                            layer   layer        layer



                                                                                                                          Output layer

                   Human neural network                                             Perceptron            Deep neural network
      19   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• What is deep learning? In the previous course, we have learned that deep
  learning is a subset of machine learning.
• Generally, the deep learning architecture is a deep neural network. The depth
  refers to the number of layers in the neural network.
• The network is built by simulating the human neural network.

• In the design and application of artificial neural networks (ANNs), the
  following factors need to be considered: neuron functions, connection modes
  among neurons, and network learning (training).
• Source of image on the left:
  http://3ms.huawei.com/km/static/image/detail.html?fid=59876
  Feedforward Neural Network Structure
  ⚫    A Feedforward Neural Network (FNN) is a typical deep learning model. It has the following features:
                As the input layer, the first layer provides the initial data source for the network.
                Each neuron at the hidden layer and the output layer receives the weighted sum of all neurons from the previous layer, and
                 provides the output to the next layer through the activation function.
                A unidirectional multi-layer structure is used. The entire network provides no feedback. Signals are transmitted unidirectionally
                 from the input layer to the output layer. The network can be represented by a directed acyclic graph (DAG).

                                                       𝑏2                        𝑏3
                             𝑏1                                                                                            ⚫   X indicates the input data.
                                                          (1)                    (1)                (1)
                                                      𝑦1                        𝑦2                 𝑦3
                            𝑥1
                                                                                                                           ⚫   W indicates the weight.
                                                                                                     (2)
                                                       (2)                       (2)
                                                                                                   𝑦3                      ⚫   B is the threshold for activating a
                                                     𝑦1                         𝑦2
                            𝑥2                                                                      (3)
                                                                                                                               neuron, and is referred to as a bias
                                                                                                   𝑦3
                                                     𝑦1
                                                       (3)                       (3)
                                                                                𝑦2
                                                                                                                               in a feedforward neural network.
                             𝑥3
                                                                                             𝑗𝑖     Node 𝑗 at layer 𝐿 is   ⚫   Y is the output of a neuron, and
                                                      𝑦1
                                                          (4)                    (4)
                                                                                𝑦2      𝑤𝑙
                                      𝑤143                                                        connected to node 𝑖 at       represents the output after the
                                                                                                       layer 𝐿 − 1.            input is processed by the activation
                                                                                        Layer 𝐿
                                               Hidden layer 1               Hidden layer 2                                     function.

                        Input layer                        Fully-connected layer                    Output layer
      20       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• It is also called the Feedforward Neural Network.
Calculating FNN


                                         𝑏2                                  𝑏3                         The first neuron at hidden layer 1 is
      𝑏1
                                                                                                        expanded, as marked by the red box in
                       𝑤111           (1)
                                    a1 |𝑦1
                                              (1)                             (1)                 (1)
                                                                            𝑦2                  𝑦3
                                                                                                        the figure. A single neuron is calculated
      𝑥1
                                                                                                  (2)
                                                                                                 𝑦3     as follows:
                                         (2)                                  (2)
                                       𝑦1                                   𝑦2
      𝑥2                                                                                          (3)
                                                                                                 𝑦3
                                                                                                         (1)
                                        𝑦1
                                            (3)                               (3)
                                                                             𝑦2                         a1 = σm
                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                （ 𝑥i ∗ 𝑤 1i） + 𝑏1
      𝑥3                                                                                                                1
                                            (4)                               (4)
                    𝑤143                𝑦1                                  𝑦2                            (1)
                                                                                                        𝑦1      = f（ a1(1) ）
                              Hidden layer 1                            Hidden layer 2
                                                                                                        …
 Input layer                                  Fully-connected layer                      Output layer



 21    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 How Do Additional Hidden Layers Impact Neural Networks?




                             0 hidden                                    3 hidden   20 hidden
                             layers                                      layers     layers




   22   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• The more hidden layers, the stronger identification capability of the neural
  network.
Adding Nodes at a Single Layer
⚫    As we shift from single-layer to the multi-layer perceptrons, we realize that we can increase
     both the number of layers on a network and the number of network nodes at a single layer.


⚫    Can we enhance network capabilities simply by adding nodes to a single layer?




    23   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents
      1.       Perceptron
      2.       Fully-connected Neural Network and How It Is Trained
                   Deep Neural Network
              ◼     Common Activation Functions
                   Neural Network Training
                   Optimizers
                   Regularization
      3.       Convolutional Neural Network
      4.       Model Architecture Based on the Recurrent Neural Network
      5.       Transformer Architecture
      6.       Basic Foundation Model Architecture
24   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Deep Neural Networks Still Require Nonlinear Activation Functions
⚫    Apart from multi-layer perceptrons, deep neural networks still need nonlinear activation
     functions to have nonlinear capabilities.
⚫    Use a linear activation function, for example: f(x) = wx +b




⚫    What are some common activation functions?
    25   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Step Function
⚫    Each neuron node in the neural network receives the weighted sum of neurons at the upper
     layer as the input. After being processed by a nonlinear function, the input value enters the
     next layer as the input. This nonlinear function is referred to as the activation function.
⚫    The sign function is the activation function used in the multi-layer perceptron and is a step
     function with the following derivative:




    26   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Sigmoid Function
⚫    The sigmoid function is an activation function frequently used in neural networks.

⚫    For an input with a domain in R, the sigmoid
     function maps it to an output within the
     interval (0,1). Because it compresses any
     input in the range (-∞,+∞) to a value within
     the interval (0,1), the sigmoid function is
     often referred to as a squeezing function.




    27   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Tanh Function
⚫    Similar to the sigmoid function, the tanh (hyperbolic tangent) function can also compress and convert its input to
     the interval (-1,1) using the following formula:




                                                                               ⚫   When the input is near 0, the tanh
                                                                                   function is close to linear
                                                                                   transformation. It has a similar
                                                                                   shape to the sigmoid function. The
                                                                                   difference is that the tanh function
                                                                                   is centrosymmetric about the origin
                                                                                   of the coordinate system.




    28   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
ReLU Function
⚫    Rectified linear unit (ReLU) is one of the most popular activation functions because it is easy to implement and
     performs well in various prediction tasks.
⚫    ReLU provides a simple nonlinear transformation. With a given element x, the ReLU function is defined as the
     maximum value between the element and 0.




    29   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Leaky ReLU Function
⚫    The Leaky ReLU function is an enhanced ReLU function. It assigns a non-zero slope to all
     negative values.




    30   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Swish Function
 ⚫    The Swish function is a self-gated activation function, and is defined as:


 ⚫    Where σ (.) is the sigmoid function. β is a
      learnable parameter or a fixed hyper-parameter.
      σ() ∈ (0, 1) can be regarded as a soft gating
      mechanism. When σ (β𝑥) is close to 1, the gate is
      open, and the output of the activation function is
      approximate to 𝑥 itself. When σ (β𝑥) is close to 0,
      the gate closed, and the output is approximate to
      0.



     31    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• When β = 0, the Swish function becomes a linear
  function 𝑥/2. When β = 1, the Swish function is
  approximately linear when 𝑥> 0, and is approximately
  saturated and has certain non-monotonicity when 𝑥< 0.
  When β→ +∞, σ(β𝑥) tends to be a discrete 0-1
  function, and the Swish function approximates to a
  ReLU function. Therefore, the Swish function can be
  considered as a non-linear interpolation function
  between a linear function and a ReLU function, and the
  degree is controlled by the β parameter.
Softmax Function
⚫    The Softmax function is usually used for multiclass classification in deep learning.
⚫    It converts a K-dimensional vector containing any real number into another K-dimensional
     vector within the range of (0,1), and the sum of all elements is equal to 1. Therefore, the vector
     output by the Softmax function can be interpreted as a probability distribution, which is
     suitable for representing the probabilities of different classifications in the classification model.




    32   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents
      1.       Perceptron
      2.       Fully-connected Neural Network and How It Is Trained
                   Deep Neural Network
                   Common Activation Functions
              ◼     Neural Network Training
                   Optimizers
                   Regularization
      3.       Convolutional Neural Network
      4.       Model Architecture Based on the Recurrent Neural Network
      5.       Transformer Architecture
      6.       Basic Foundation Model Architecture
33   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Learning from Data
 ⚫    The primary difference between a neural network and a multi-layer perceptron is that, when
      solving nonlinear problems, the neural network can automatically learn how to extract features
      to form a problem-solving model. This learning ability depends on data.

                                                                           How to identify
                                                                           different            Algorithms that humans                      Answer
                                                                           handwritten 5s       think of




                                                                                             Features that
                                                                                                                         Machine learning
                                                                                             humans think of                                Answer
                                                                                             (SIFT, HOG, etc)             (SVM, KNN, etc)




                                                                                                 Neural network
                                                                                                                                            Answer
                                                                                                 (deep learning)




     34   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Data is the foundation of machine learning. Finding
  answers from data, discovering patterns from data, and
  telling stories based on data... Without data, machine
  learning will not be possible at all. Therefore, data is the
  core of machine learning. This data-driven approach
  helps us get rid of the human-centered approach.
 Data Division
  ⚫    A dataset is usually divided into a training set, a validation set, and a test set.

                                                                                                                            Feature
                                                                            Training
                                                                            data                                            learning
                                                                                                                                         Established
                                                                                                                                         identification
                                                                                                                                         mode
                                                                                                                   Self-optimization
                          Training set

                                                                        Test                                                              Flowers?
                                                                        data
                                                                                                                        Identification
                                                                                                                                          ...
                      Validation and
                      test sets                                                                                                           Leaves?
                 The validation set is used to evaluate the model training at the end of a phase, so that we can make
                 adjustments based on the validation results.
                 The test set is generally data that has never been seen by a formally-working model. The results
                 obtained with the test set directly reflect the model's performance.
      35   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• https://3ms.huawei.com/km/static/image/detail.html?fid=57074

• https://3ms.huawei.com/km/static/image/detail.html?fid=56891
How Does a Neural Network Learn?
                                                                                                    Your answer
 Learning                                                    Simulation test
                                                                                                                             Reflection




                                                                                                   Answer




                                                                               Human learning process
                                                                                                                                           How is the error
                                                                                                                                           calculated?

                                                                                                            Identification
                                                                                                                result             Calculation
                                                                                                                                      error
                                                                                                             True result
                                                      Neural     network          Parameter adjustment
                                                      learning process

 36   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Loss Functions
⚫    A loss function is used to measure the difference between the model's predicted value and the
     actual value in machine learning and deep learning. It quantifies the degree to which a model
     makes mistakes during training.
⚫    Common loss functions
              Mean square error: mainly used for regression tasks.



                                                                    yk represents the output of the neural network, tk represents supervised
                                                                    data, and k represents the number of data dimensions.
              Cross entropy loss function: mainly used for classification tasks.



                                                                    yk represents the output of the neural network, and tk
                                                                    represents the correct solution label.
    37       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Gradient Descent
⚫    Neural network learning is a process of finding the optimal parameters. As the parameters are
     optimized, the neural network's predicted value gradually approaches the real value, and the loss
     function decreases. Therefore, the optimal parameters allow us to obtain the minimum value of the loss
     function.
⚫    The gradient is the direction in which the multivariate function value increases the quickest. Therefore,
     all parameters should be optimized in the reverse gradient direction.



    The gradient of the multivariate function 𝐶 𝑊 =
    𝑓 𝑤0 , 𝑤1 , … , 𝑤𝑛 at

    𝑊 ′ = [𝑤0 ′ , 𝑤1 ′ , … , 𝑤𝑛 ′ ] 𝑇 is as follows:
                                                                    𝜕𝑓 𝜕𝑓       𝜕𝑓 𝑇
                 𝛻𝑓 𝑤0 ′ , 𝑤1 ′ , … , 𝑤𝑛 ′ = [                        ,    ,…,    ] |  ′
                                                                   𝜕𝑤0 𝜕𝑤1     𝜕𝑤𝑛 𝑊=𝑊

    38   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Batch Gradient Descent (BGD) Algorithm
  ⚫    <X, t> indicates a sample in the training set. X is the input value vector, t is the target output, o
       is the actual output, η is the learning rate, and C is the loss function.
           Initialize each 𝑤𝑖 to a random value with a smaller absolute value.
           Before the termination condition is met, do as follows:
                 ◼    Initialize each ∆𝑤𝑖 to zero.
                 ◼    For each <X, t> in the training set, do as follows:
                          − Input X to this unit and calculate the output o.
                                                                             1   𝜕C(𝑡𝑑 ,𝑜𝑑)
                          − For each 𝑤𝑖 in this unit: ∆𝑤𝑖 += -η𝑛 σx σ𝑑∈𝐷           𝜕𝑤𝑖

                 ◼    For each 𝑤𝑖 in this unit: 𝑤𝑖 += ∆𝑤𝑖
  ⚫    This gradient descent algorithm is not used often because the convergence is very slow since all
       training samples need to be computed every time the weight is updated.

      39    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• The BGD algorithm uses the entire training set for each learning. Therefore, each update is
  made towards the correct direction, ensuring convergence to the extrema in the end. A
  convex function converges to a global extremum, and a non-convex function may converge
  to a local extremum. However, this algorithm requires longer learning time and more
  memory resources.
  Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) Algorithm
  ⚫    A common variant, Incremental Gradient Descent or Stochastic Gradient Descent, has
       been developed to solve the issues found in the BGD algorithm. One of its
       implementations is online learning, which updates the gradient based on each sample.
                                                                            1    𝜕C(𝑡𝑑 , 𝑜𝑑 )              𝜕C(𝑡𝑑 , 𝑜𝑑 )
                                                                    ∆𝑤𝑖 = −𝜂 ෍ ෍              ⟹ ∆𝑤𝑖 = −𝜂 ෍
                                                                            𝑛 x    𝜕𝑤𝑖                       𝜕𝑤𝑖
                                                                                     𝑑∈𝐷                  𝑑∈𝐷

  ⚫    SGD:
                Initialize each 𝑤𝑖 to a random value with a smaller absolute value.
                Before the termination condition is met, do as follows:
                    ◼    Randomly select <X, t> in the training set:
                             − Input X to this unit and calculate the output o.
                                                                                𝜕C(𝑡𝑑,𝑜𝑑)
                             − For each 𝑤𝑖 in this unit: 𝑤𝑖 += -ησ𝑑∈𝐷             𝜕𝑤𝑖




      40       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• This gradient descent algorithm updates the weight based on each sample. Most training
  samples contain noise. As a result, when the extremum is approximated to, the gradient
  direction is oriented up and down near the extremum but difficult to converge to the
  extremum.
  Mini-batch Gradient Descent (MBGD) Algorithm
  ⚫    The MBGD algorithm was designed to address the issues found in the previous two gradient descent
       algorithms and is now most widely used. It uses a small fixed batch size (BS) of samples to compute ∆𝑤𝑖
       and update weights.
           Initialize each 𝑤𝑖 to a random value with a smaller absolute value.
           Before the termination condition is met, do as follows:
                 ◼    Initialize each ∆𝑤𝑖 to zero.
                 ◼    For each <X, t> in the next batch of samples (number of samples = BS) obtained from the training set, do as
                      follows:
                          − Input X to this unit and calculate the output o.
                                                                             1   𝜕C(𝑡𝑑,𝑜𝑑 )
                          − For each 𝑤𝑖 in this unit: ∆𝑤𝑖 += -η𝑛 σx σ𝑑∈𝐷           𝜕𝑤𝑖

                 ◼    For each 𝑤𝑖 in this unit: 𝑤𝑖 += ∆𝑤𝑖
                 ◼    If it is the last batch, shuffle the training samples.


      41    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• This gradient descent algorithm considers both the efficiency and gradient stability. It may
  easily overshoot the local minimum and is the most commonly used gradient descent
  algorithm in actual work. The batch size varies with specific problems and is usually set to
  32.
 Network Training Process
                                                                           1            1
 ⚫    Forward propagation: 𝐶(𝑊) = 2 (𝑦 − 𝑎3 )2=2 (𝑦 − 𝑔(𝑊2 𝑔 𝑊1 𝑋                                    ))2 .
                                                                                                                  𝑑𝐶
 ⚫    If the parameter 𝑊1 needs to be updated, according to 𝑊𝑡+1 = 𝑊𝑡 − 𝜂 𝑑𝑊,
                              𝑑𝐶       𝜕𝐶(𝑊) 𝜕𝑎 𝜕𝑧 𝜕𝑎 𝜕𝑧
      compute: 𝑑𝑊1 = 𝜕𝑎3 𝜕𝑧33 𝜕𝑎32 𝜕𝑧22 𝜕𝑊21.
                                                                               Forward propagation



                                                          Linear Combination      Activation         Linear Combination   Activation




                                                                                 Back propagation

     42   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• As shown in the figure, the sequence of
  backpropagation is to multiply the signal LOSS by the
  local derivative of the node and then send the result to
  the next node.
 Chain Rule
  ⚫    Composite function
                                                                                     Breakdown



  ⚫    Deriving the composite function: If a function is represented by a composite function, the
       derivative of the composite function may be represented by the product of derivatives of
       functions that form the composite function.




                          derivative (the derivative of z with respect to x) may be expressed by                       (the derivative of z with
                          respect to t) multiplied by                       (the derivative of t with respect to x).
  ⚫    This is the chain rule.
      43   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Neural networks propagate forward layer by layer. How can we calculate the gradients of
  all parameters based on the gradient of the loss function?

• If a function is represented by a composite function,
  the derivative of the composite function may be
  represented by the product of derivatives of functions
  that form the composite function.
Vanishing and Exploding Gradients (1)
⚫    Vanishing gradient: As the number of network layers increases, the derivative value of
     backward propagation decreases, and the gradient vanishes.
⚫    Exploding gradient: As the number of network layers increases, the derivative value of
     backward propagation increases, and the gradient explodes.
⚫    Cause:                                                      y𝑖 = 𝜎(𝑧𝑖 ) = 𝜎 𝑤𝑖 𝑥𝑖 + 𝑏𝑖 , 𝑤ℎ𝑒𝑟𝑒 𝜎 is the sig𝑚𝑜𝑖𝑑 function.

                                                                w1                w2           w3           w4
                                                 x                        Z1|Y1        Z2|y2        Z3|Y3        Z4|Y4      C




⚫    Backward propagation can be deduced as follows:




    44   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Vanishing and Exploding Gradients (2)
                                                                            1
  ⚫    The maximum value of 𝜎 ′ 𝑥 is 4 :




                                                                                           1
  ⚫    The network weight | w | is usually less than 1. Therefore, |σ'(z) w| ≤ 4. When using the chain rule, the
                          𝜕C
       value of                  becomes smaller when the number of layers increases, resulting in gradient vanishing.
                        𝜕𝑏1
  ⚫    When the network weight | w | is large, that is |σ'(z) w| > 1, the gradient explodes.
  ⚫    Solution: Use gradient clipping to prevent the gradient from exploding, and use the ReLU activation
       function and LSTM neural network to mitigate gradient vanishing.



      45   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• This problem occurs when the value of w is large. However, this problem rarely occurs
  when the sigmoid activation function is used. It is because that the value of 𝜎 ′ 𝑧 is also
  related to w ([equation]), unless the input value [equation] of this layer is within a small
  range.

• Gradient exploding and vanishing are caused by large network depth and unstable network
  weight update. In essence, they are caused by the chain rule in gradient backward
  propagation.

• Gradient clipping is proposed to solve gradient exploding. The principle is to set a gradient
  clipping threshold. When being updated, if the gradient exceeds the threshold, the gradient
  must be limited under the threshold. This prevents gradient exploding.

• Another approach for resolving gradient exploding is weight regularization. l1 regularization
  and l2 regularization are commonly used. All deep learning frameworks provide APIs for
  regularization. For example, in TensorFlow, if regularization parameters are set during
  network setup, you can use the following code to calculate the regularization loss.

• ReLU: The principle is simple. If the derivative of the activation function is 1, gradient
  vanishing and exploding do not occur, and each network layer has the same update rate.
  The ReLU function is developed for this purpose.

• For long-short term memory (LSTM) networks, gradient vanishing does not easily occur
  thanks to the complex gates inside the LSTM. As shown in the following figure, LSTM can
  memorize the residual memory from previous training through the internal gates when it is
updated. Therefore, it is often used in generative text. Currently, CNN-based LSTM is also
available. Try it if you are interested.
     Contents
      1.       Perceptron
      2.       Fully-connected Neural Network and How It Is Trained
                   Deep Neural Network
                   Common Activation Functions
                   Neural Network Training
              ◼     Optimizers
                   Regularization
      3.       Convolutional Neural Network
      4.       Model Architecture Based on the Recurrent Neural Network
      5.       Transformer Architecture
      6.       Basic Foundation Model Architecture
46   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Faster Model Training
  ⚫    Neural network training is very slow
       when using normal methods.
  ⚫    To speed up the process, we can use
       special tools called optimizers.




      47   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• https://3ms.huawei.com/km/static/image/detail.html?fid=57497
Optimizers
⚫    There are various improved versions of gradient descent algorithms. In object-oriented
     programming, different gradient descent algorithms are often encapsulated into an object
     called an optimizer.
⚫    There are several reasons for improving algorithms, including:
              Accelerating algorithm convergence
              Preventing or overshooting local extrema
              Simplifying manual parameter setting, especially the learning rate



⚫    Common optimizers include the common SGD optimizer, momentum optimizer, AdaGrad,
     RMSprop, and Adam.
    48       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Momentum Optimizer
  ⚫    Adding the momentum term to ∆𝑤𝑗𝑖 is a basic way to improve an algorithm. Assume that the
       weight correction of the 𝑛-th iteration is ∆𝑤𝑗𝑖 𝑛 . The weight correction rule is:
                                                                            ∆𝑤𝑗𝑖𝑙 𝑛 = −𝜂𝛿𝑖𝑙+1 𝑥𝑗𝑙 (𝑛) + 𝛼∆𝑤𝑗𝑖𝑙 𝑛 − 1

       Where α is a constant (0≤𝛼<1) called the momentum coefficient, and 𝛼∆𝑤𝑗𝑖𝑙 𝑛 − 1 is the
       momentum term.
  ⚫    Imagine that a small ball rolls down from a random point on the error surface. The momentum
       term gives inertia to the ball.




      49   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• 𝜂𝛿𝑖𝑙+1 𝑥𝑗𝑙 𝑛 indicates the original gradient and direction, j represents the j-th neuron at the
   l-th layer, and i represents the i-th neuron at the (l+1)-th layer.
Advantages and Disadvantages of the Momentum Optimizer

⚫    Advantages:
              Enhances the stability of the gradient correction direction and reduces mutations.
              In areas where the gradient direction is stable, the ball rolls faster and faster (there is a speed upper
               limit because 𝛼 < 1), which helps the ball quickly overshoot the flat area and accelerates
               convergence.
              A small ball with inertia is more likely to roll over some narrow local extrema.


⚫    Disadvantages:
              The learning rate 𝜂 and momentum 𝛼 need to be manually set. Usually, additional experiments are
               necessary to determine the appropriate values.


    50       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
AdaGrad Optimizer (1)
⚫    The common characteristic of the SGD algorithm, MBGD algorithm, and momentum optimizer
     is that they update each parameter using the same learning rate.
⚫    According AdaGrad principle, different learning rates should be set for different parameters.
                                                             C (t , o)
                                                   gt =                                 Computing gradient
                                                               wt
                                                   rt = rt −1 + gt2                     Square gradient accumulation
                                                                            
                                                   wt = −                         gt   Computation update
                                                                           + rt
                                                   wt +1 =wt + wt                      Application update

𝑔𝑡 indicates the t-th gradient, and 𝑟𝑡 is the gradient accumulation variable. The initial value of 𝑟 is 0, which increases
continuously. 𝜂 indicates the global learning rate, which needs to be set manually. 𝜀 is a small constant that is set to 10-
7 for numerical stability.

    51   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
AdaGrad Optimizer (2)
⚫    According to the AdaGrad optimization algorithm, 𝑟 continuously increases while the overall
     learning rate keeps decreasing as the algorithm iterates. This is because we want the learning
     rate to slow down as the number of updates increases. When the model starts learning, we are
     far away from the optimal solution to the loss function. With more updates, we get closer and
     closer to the optimal solution, so learning speed can decrease.
⚫    Advantage:
              The learning rate is automatically updated. As the number of updates increases, the learning rate
               decreases.
⚫    Disadvantage:
              The denominator increases continuously, and learning becomes very slow at the end. As a result, the
               algorithm loses its effectiveness.


    52       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
RMSProp Optimizer
⚫    The RMSProp optimizer is an improved AdaGrad optimizer. It introduces an attenuation coefficient to
     ensure that 𝑟 attenuates at a certain rate in each round.
⚫    The RMSProp optimizer addresses the fact that the AdaGrad optimizer ends the optimization process too
     early. It is suitable for handling unstable targets and is especially effective for RNNs.
                                                                          C (t , o)
                                                               gt =                          Computing gradient
                                                                            wt
                                                              rt = rt −1 + (1 −  ) gt2     Square gradient accumulation
                                                                                  
                                                              wt = −                   gt   Computation update
                                                                                + rt
                                                              wt +1 = wt + wt               Application update

         ⚫   𝑔𝑡 indicates the t-th gradient, and t is the gradient accumulation variable. The initial value of r is 0, which
             may not increase and needs to be adjusted with a parameter. 𝛽 indicates the attenuation
             factor. 𝜂 indicates the global learning rate, which needs to be set manually. 𝜀 is a small constant and is
             set to10−7 for numerical stability.
    53   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Adam Optimizer (1)
⚫    Adaptive Moment Estimation (Adam) was developed based on AdaGrad and AdaDelta. It
     maintains two additional variables, 𝑚𝑡 and 𝑣𝑡 , for each variable to be trained.
                                                                          𝑚𝑡 = 𝛽1 𝑚𝑡−1 + (1 − 𝛽1 )𝑔𝑡
                                                                          𝑣𝑡 = 𝛽2 𝑣𝑡−1 + (1 − 𝛽2 )𝑔𝑡2
⚫    Where 𝑡 represents the 𝑡-th iteration, and 𝑔𝑡 is the calculated gradient. 𝑚𝑡 and 𝑣𝑡 are moving
     averages of the gradient and square gradient, respectively. From a statistical perspective,
     𝑚𝑡 and 𝑣𝑡 are estimates of the gradient's first moment (the average value) and the second
     moment (the uncentered variance), respectively, hence the name of the method.




    54   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Adam Optimizer (2)
⚫    If 𝑚1 and 𝑣1 are initialized using the zero vector, 𝑚𝑡 and 𝑣𝑡 are close to 0 during the initial iterations,
     especially when 𝛽1 and 𝛽2 are close to 1. To solve this problem, we use 𝑚
                                                                             ෝ 𝑡 and 𝑣ො𝑡 .
                                                           𝑚𝑡
                                                  𝑚ෝ𝑡 =
                                                         1 − 𝛽1𝑡
                                                           𝑣𝑡
                                                   𝑣ො𝑡 =
                                                         1 − 𝛽2𝑡
⚫    Adam's weight update rule is as follows:
                                                                                         𝜂
                                                                          𝑤𝑡+1 = 𝑤𝑡 −             𝑚
                                                                                                  ෝ𝑡
                                                                                        𝑣ො𝑡 + 𝜖
⚫    Although the rule requires manually setting 𝜂, 𝛽1 , and 𝛽2 , the setting process is much simpler. According
     to experiments, the default settings are 𝛽1 = 0.9, 𝛽2 = 0.999,𝜖 = 10−8 , 𝜂=0.001. In practice, Adam
     converges quickly. When convergence saturation is reached, 𝜂 can be reduced. After several rounds of
     reduction, a satisfying (local) extrema is obtained. Other parameters do not need to be adjusted.

    55   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents
      1.       Perceptron
      2.       Fully-connected Neural Network and How It Is Trained
                   Deep Neural Network
                   Common Activation Functions
                   Neural Network Training
                   Optimizers
              ◼     Regularization
      3.       Convolutional Neural Network
      4.       Model Architecture Based on the Recurrent Neural Network
      5.       Transformer Architecture
      6.       Basic Foundation Model Architecture
56   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 End of Model Learning
  ⚫    When does the model finish learning?
  ⚫    When is the model ready for real use?
  ⚫    Can we say the model is perfect once it has learnt all training data features?




      57   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• https://3ms.huawei.com/km/static/image/detail.html?fid=64716
  Overfitting
  ⚫    Problem description: The model performs well with the training set, but poorly with the test set.
  ⚫    Root cause: There are too many feature dimensions, model assumptions, and parameters, too much
       noise, but very little training data. As a result, the fitting function predicts the training set almost
       perfectly, but the prediction result for a new test data set is unsatisfactory. Training data is overfitted
       without considering the model's generalization capability.


             y                                                              y                      y




                                                                       x                       x                       x
                             Underfitting                                                               Overfitting
                         Features not learned                                   Good fitting
                                                                                                       Noise learned
      58   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Overfitting is caused by insufficient data and complex model. In deep learning, small
  training data size and high model complexity are two common problems. They result in high
  prediction accuracy with training data, but low accuracy with test data. This is how
  overfitting occurs.

           ▫ Obtain more data: Obtain more data from data sources and perform data
             augmentation.

           ▫ Use a proper model: Reduce the number of network layers and the number of
             neurons to limit the fitting capability of the network.

           ▫ Dropout

           ▫ Regularization: Restricts weight increase during training.

           ▫ Limit the training time. Pass the evaluation test.

           ▫ Increase the noise: Input + Weight (Gaussian initialization)

           ▫ Data cleansing/pruning: Rectifies or deletes incorrect labels.

           ▫ Using multiple models: Bagging uses diverse models to fit training sets of different
             parts, while Boosting uses only simple neural networks.
  𝐿1 Regularization
  ⚫    Add the norm constraint 𝐿1 to model parameters, that is,
                                                                             𝐽ሚ 𝑤; 𝑋, 𝑦 = 𝐽 𝑤; 𝑋, 𝑦 + 𝛼 𝑤 1

  ⚫    If a gradient method is used to resolve the value, the parameter gradient is:
                                                                              𝛻 𝐽ሚ 𝑤 = 𝛼𝑠𝑖𝑔𝑛 𝑤 + 𝛻𝐽 𝑤
  ⚫    The parameter optimization method is:
                                                                            𝑤𝑡+1 = 𝑤 − 𝜀𝛼𝑠𝑖𝑔𝑛(𝑤) − 𝜀𝛻𝐽(𝑤)




      59   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• In special cases, for secondary optimization, the parameter recursive formula is 𝑤𝑖 =
                                                              𝛼
   𝑠𝑖𝑔𝑛 𝑤𝑖∗ ma𝑥( 𝑤𝑖∗ − 𝜆 , 0), assuming that the corresponding Hessian matrix is a diagonal
                                                                 𝑖
                                                                              ∗                               𝛼
   matrix. According to this formula, the parameter value is reduced to 0 if 𝑤𝑖 < 𝜆 . This is
                                                                                                              𝑖

   different from 𝐿2 regularization. Compared with the 𝐿2 optimization method, 𝐿2 does not
   directly reduce the parameter value to 0 but to a value close to 0.
  𝐿2 Regularization
  ⚫    Add norm penalty term 𝐿2 to prevent overfitting.
                                                                                                     1
                                                                             𝐽ሚ 𝑤; 𝑋, 𝑦 = 𝐽 𝑤; 𝑋, 𝑦 + 𝛼 𝑤 22
                                                                                                     2
           A parameter optimization method can be inferred using an optimization technology (such as a
           gradient method):
                                                                                𝑤 = 1 − 𝜀𝛼 𝑤 − 𝜀𝛻𝐽(𝑤)
           where 𝜀 is the learning rate. Compared with a common gradient optimization formula, this
           formula multiplies the parameter by a reduction factor.




      60    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Add a regular term Ω (θ)=12||w||22 to the target function to make the weight closer to
  the origin.

• If 𝐽 is a secondary optimization formula, the model parameter may be represented as 𝑤
                                                                                      ෥𝑖 =
    𝜆𝑖
        𝑤 , that is, adding a control factor to the original parameter, where λ is an eigenvalue
   𝜆𝑖 +𝛼 𝑖
   of the parameter Hessian matrix. Therefore:

           ▫ When 𝜆𝑖 ≫∝, the penalty factor has a small effect.

           ▫ When 𝜆𝑖 ≪∝, the corresponding parameter value is reduced to 0.
  Stopping Training Early
  ⚫    You can insert a data test on the validation set during the training. If the data loss of the
       verification set increases, the training is stopped early.




                                                                            Stopping training early

                                                                                             Validation set



                                                                                              Training set

                                                                                                Training round


      61   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Generally, a relatively large number (n) of iterations is set. First we need to save the current
  model, including the network structure and weights, and train the model for num_batch
  times (that is, an epoch) to obtain a new model. Then, use the test set as the input of the
  new model for testing. If the test error is greater than the last test error, we do not stop the
  test immediately. Instead, we should continue to conduct the training and test for several
  epochs. If the error does not decrease, we stop the model training when we believe that
  the minimum error is achieved in the last test.

• The common practice is to record the best test set accuracy p so far. If the accuracy does
  not exceed p in m consecutive periods, it may be considered that p does not increase
  anymore, and iteration may be stopped early (early stopping).

• As shown in the figure, the test error gradually decreases in the first several epochs.
  However, it slightly increases in a certain epoch. This indicates that overfitting has occurred.

• Overfitting is unwanted. We can prevent it through early stopping.

• Early stopping is to stop training before the test error starts to increase, even if the training
  has not converged, that is, the training error has not reached the minimum.
  Dropout
  ⚫    Dropout is a common simple regularization method, which has been widely used since 2014. Simply put,
       dropout randomly discards some inputs during training. Parameters corresponding to the discarded
       inputs are not updated.
  ⚫    Dropout is an integration method. It combines all sub-network results and obtains sub-networks by
       randomly dropping inputs.
                                                                       y             y             y             y


                                                                  h₁       h₂   h₁       h₂   h₁       h₂


                                                                  x₁       x₂            x₂   x₁            x₁       x₂

                                                y
                                                                       y             y             y             y


                                                                  h₁            h₁       h₂                          h₂
                                          h₁        h₂
                                                                  x₁       x₂                 x₁       x₂            x₂


                                          x₁        x₂                 y             y             y             y


                                                                  h₁            h₁                     h₂


                                                                  x₁                     x₂   x₁            x₁


                                                                       y             y             y             y


                                                                                         h₂   h₁


                                                                           x₂



      62   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• When the samples of each test round are input into the neural network for training, a
  probability p is set, so that each neuron has a specific probability of dying and being
  excluded from network training.
• The process is as follows: 1. Delete neurons (temporarily dead) in the hidden layer of the
  network at a specific probability p, and keep the input and output neurons unchanged. 2.
  Propagate the input x forward through the modified network, and propagate back the loss
  result through the modified network. After this process is performed on a small batch of
  training samples, update corresponding parameters (w, b) on neurons that are not deleted
  with the SGD algorithm. 3. Then, repeat the process. Restore the deleted neurons. At this
  point, the deleted neurons remain unchanged, and the undeleted neurons are updated.
  Randomly select a subset of half size from the neurons at the hidden layer, and temporarily
  delete it. Remember to back up the parameters of the deleted neurons. For a small batch of
  training samples, propagate the input forward, backpropagate the loss, and then update
  the parameters (w, b) according to the SGD algorithm (The parameters of the undeleted
  neurons are updated, and the parameters of the deleted neurons remain the same as what
  they are before the deletion.)
• The sampling probability of each entry is 0.8 for the input and 0.5 for the hidden layers.
• Advantages:
           ▫ Compared with weight decay and norm constraints, this strategy is more effective.
           ▫ It is computationally cheap and simple and can be used in non-deep-learning models.
           ▫ However, it is less effective when the training data is insufficient.
           ▫ Stochasticity is not necessary or sufficient to achieve the normalizing effect of
             dropout. Invariant shielding parameters can be constructed to obtain good solutions.
• In addition to the preceding methods, we can also use semi-supervised learning, multi-task
  learning, early stopping, parameter sharing, ensemble methods, and adversarial training.
     Contents

      1. Perceptron

      2. Fully-connected Neural Network and How It Is Trained

      3. Convolutional Neural Network

      4. Model Architecture Based on the Recurrent Neural Network

      5. Transformer Architecture

      6. Basic Foundation Model Architecture


63   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Convolutional Neural Network
  ⚫    A CNN is a feedforward neural network. Its artificial neurons may respond to units within the
       coverage range. CNN excels at image processing. It includes a convolutional layer, a pooling
       layer, and a fully-connected layer.
  ⚫    In the 1960s, Hubel and Wiesel studied the cortex neurons that cats use to sense their
       environment and select their direction. They found that their unique network structure could
       simplify feedback neural networks. They then proposed the CNN.
  ⚫    CNN has become a hot research topic in many scientific fields, especially in pattern
       classification. The network is widely used because it can avoid complex image pre-processing,
       directly using original images instead.


      64   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• A filter matrix is a set of fixed weight and can be seen as a constant filter (kernel). The
  convolution (adding each element, weighted by the kernel) is performed between an image
  (data from different data windows) and a kernel. This type of network is called CNN.

• Local receptive field: It is generally considered that human perception of the outside world
  is from local to global. Spatial correlations among local pixels of an image are closer than
  those among pixels that are far away. Therefore, each neuron does not need to know the
  global image. It only needs to know the local image and then the local information is
  combined at a higher level to generate global information. The idea of local network
  connection is also inspired by the biological visual system structure. The neurons in the
  visual cortex receive local information (respond to stimuli of certain regions).

• Parameter sharing: One or more filters can be used to scan the input images. The
  parameters of the filter are weights. At the layers scanned by the same filter, each filter
  uses the same parameters to perform weighted computation. Weight sharing means that
  the parameter values of each filter do not change when the filter scans the entire image.
  For example, if we have three feature filters and each filter scans the entire image. During
  the scanning process, the parameter values of the filters do not change. In other words, all
  elements of the image share the same weights.
Main CNN Concepts
⚫    Local receptive field: It is believed that humans perceive the outside world from local
     to global. The spatial correlations among an image's local pixels are closer than those
     among the pixels that are far away. As such, each neuron does not need to know the
     global image; it only needs to know the local image. Then, the local information is
     combined at a higher level to generate global information.
⚫    Parameter sharing: One or more convolution cores may be used to scan input images.
     Parameters carried by the convolution cores are weights. In a layer scanned by
     convolution cores, each core uses the same parameters for weighted computation.
     Weight sharing means that, when each convolution core scans an entire image, its
     parameters are fixed.


    65   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  CNN Architecture
                                                                          3 feature                                     5 feature                         Output
                                                                            maps            3 feature                               5 feature
                                  Input image                                                                             maps                             layer
                                                                                              maps                                    maps




                                                                                                                                                 Bird     Pbird


                                                                                                                                                  Fish    Pfish


                                                                                                                                                  Dog     Pdog




                                                                                                        Vectorization
                                                                                                                                                  Cat     Pcat

                                            Convolution + nonlinearity                Max pooling
                                                                                                                                            Multiple classes
                                                 Convolutional layers + pooling layers
                                                                                                        Fully-connected layer

    66   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Input layer: inputs data.

• Convolutional layer: composed of several convolutional units. The parameters of each
  convolutional unit are obtained by optimizing the backward propagation algorithm. The
  purpose of convolution computation is to extract different input features. The first
  convolutional layer may extract only some low-level features such as edges, lines, and
  angles. A multi-layer network can extract more complex features based on the low-level
  features.

• Rectified linear units layer (ReLU layer): uses ReLU f(x) = max(0, x) as the activation
  function.

• Pooling layer: partitions features obtained from the convolutional layer into some areas
  and outputs the maximum or minimum value, generating new features with a smaller
  spatial size.

• Fully-connected layer: integrates all local features into global features to compute the final
  scores for each type.

• Output layer: outputs the final result.

• Image on the left: http://image.huawei.com/tiny-
  lts/v1/images/0281bccdff8137c18a163beba5a2650c_4715x2927.jpg
Computing a Single Convolution Kernel (1)
⚫    Description of convolution computing




    67   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Computing a Single Convolution Kernel (2)
⚫    Result of convolution computing




                                                                          Hanbingtao, 2017, CNN

    68   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Convolutional Layer
The basic CNN architecture is multi-channel convolution that consists of multiple single convolutions. The
output of the upper layer (or the original image of the first layer) is used as the input of the current layer. It
is then convolved with the layer's convolution kernel and serves as this layer's output. Each layer's
convolution kernel is the weight to learn. Similar to the fully-connected layer, after the convolution is
completed, the result should be biased and activated through activation functions before being input to the
next layer.

                                                                        Wn
                                                                             bn
                                                                                             Fn


                                                       Input                                           Output
                                                       tensor                                          tensor
                                                                                                  F1
                                                                                  Activate
                                                                        W2   b2



                                                                        W1   b1

  69   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Pooling Layer
  Pooling combines nearby units to reduce the size of the input at the next layer, reducing dimensions. Commonly used
  pooling methods include max pooling and average pooling. In max pooling, the maximum value within a small square
  region is selected as the representative for that area. In average pooling, the average value of the small region is chosen
  as the representative, with the side length of this region equal to the pool window size. The following figure shows max
  pooling where the pool window size is 2.




    70   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• The actual classification networks are feed forward networks that are formed by
  interconnected convolutional and pooling layers. The pooling layer has the following
  functions:

         ▫ Invariance: Max pooling ensures invariance within a certain range because the
           maximum value of a region is the last output value regardless of its location.

         ▫ Reducing the input size for the next layer: Pooling effectively reduces the size of the
           input data for the next layer, the number of parameters, and computation workload.

         ▫ Obtaining fixed-length data: By properly setting the pooling window size and stride,
           we can obtain fixed-length outputs from variable-length inputs.

         ▫ Increasing the scale: The features of the upper layer can be extracted from a larger
           scale.

         ▫ Preventing overfitting: Pooling simplifies the network and reduces the fitting
           precision. Therefore, it can prevent overfitting (note the possible underfitting).
Fully-connected Layer
⚫    The fully-connected layer is essentially a classifier. The features extracted on the convolutional
     and pooling layers are straightened and placed at the fully-connected layer to output and
     classify results.


                                                                                Straighten




⚫    Generally, the Softmax function is used as the activation function of the final fully-connected
     output layer to combine all local features into global ones and compute the score of each class.
                                                                                         𝑧
                                                                                       𝑒 𝑗
                                                                          softmax= σ      𝑧𝑘
                                                                                       𝑘𝑒


    71   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1.       Perception
      2.       Fully-connected Neural Network and How It Is Trained
      3.       Convolutional Neural Network
      4.       Model Architecture Based on the Recurrent Neural Network
              ◼     RNN
                   LSTM
                   Seq2Seq

      5.       Transformer Architecture
      6.       Basic Foundation Model Architecture

72   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Recurrent Neural Network
⚫    The recurrent neural network (RNN) is a neural network that captures dynamic information in
     sequential data through periodical connections of hidden layer nodes. It can classify sequential
     data.
⚫    Unlike FNNs, the RNN can keep a context state and even store, learn, and express related
     information in context windows of any length. Unlike traditional neural networks, it is not
     restricted by the space boundary but can extend time sequences. In other words, a side exists
     between the hidden layer of the current moment and the hidden layer of the next moment.
⚫    The RNN is widely used in scenarios related to sequences, such as videos consisting of image
     frames, audio consisting of clips, and sentences consisting of words.


    73   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
RNN Architecture
⚫    𝑋𝑡 is the input of the input sequence at time t.

⚫    𝑆𝑡 is the memory cell of the sequence at time t and caches previous information:

                 𝑆𝑡 = 𝜎 𝑈𝑋𝑡 + 𝑊𝑆𝑡−1 .

⚫    S𝑡 traverses multiple hidden layers, and then traverses the fully-connected layer V to obtain the

     final output O𝑡 at time t:
                 𝑂𝑡 = 𝑠𝑜𝑓𝑡𝑚𝑎𝑥 𝑆𝑡 𝑉 .




    74   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Back-Propagation Through Time
  ⚫    BPTT:
                Conventional backward propagation is an extension of the time sequence.
                There are two errors in a memory cell at time step t: the partial derivative of the error 𝐶𝑡 at time step t with respect to the
                 memory cell and the partial derivative of the error at the next time step t+1 with respect to the memory cell at time step t.
                 These two errors need to be combined.
                The longer the time sequence, the more likely will the loss of the gradient from the last time step to the weight gradient at the
                 first time step contribute to the vanishing or exploding gradient problem.
                The total gradient of the weight w is the accumulation of the gradients across all time steps.
  ⚫    BPTT steps:
           1. Compute the output of each neuron (forward);
           2. Compute the error 𝛿𝑗 of each neuron (backward); and
           3. Compute the gradient of each weight.
  ⚫    Updating weights using the SGD algorithm


      75       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




                                                                                                                              𝜕𝐶
• z𝑡 is the value before the memory cell enters the activation function. 𝛿t = 𝜕𝑧𝑡 + 𝑤 𝑇
                                                                                                                                 𝑡

   × 𝑓𝑡′ (𝑧𝑡 ) × 𝛿𝑡+1
RNN Problems
⚫    𝑆𝑡 = 𝜎 𝑈𝑋𝑡 + 𝑊𝑆𝑡−1 extended on the time sequence.


⚫    𝑆𝑡 = σ 𝑈𝑋𝑡 + 𝑊 𝜎 𝑈𝑋𝑡−1 + 𝑊 𝜎 𝑈𝑋𝑡−2 + 𝑊 …

⚫    While the standard RNN architecture solves the problem of information memory, the information about
     long-term memory attenuates.
              Long-term information needs to be saved in many tasks. For example, a hint at the beginning of a speculative
               fiction may not be explained until the end.
              RNN may not be able to save long-term information due to the limited memory cell capacity.
              We expect that memory cells can remember key information.



    76       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1.       Perception
      2.       Fully-connected Neural Network and How It Is Trained
      3.       Convolutional Neural Network
      4.       Model Architecture Based on the Recurrent Neural Network
                   RNN
              ◼     LSTM
                   Seq2Seq

      5.       Transformer Architecture
      6.       Basic Foundation Model Architecture

77   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
LSTM




 78   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Forget Gate of LSTM
⚫    The first step in LSTM is to decide the information to be discarded from the cell state.

⚫    The decision is made through the forget gate. This gate reads ℎ𝑡−1 and 𝑥𝑡 , and outputs a numeric
     value in the range from 0 to 1 for each digit in the cell state 𝐶𝑡−1 . The value 1 indicates that the
     information is completely retained while the value 0 indicates that the information is completely
     discarded.
                                                                                          ℎt

                                              𝐶t−1                                             𝐶t
                                                                                       tanh
                                                                 𝑖t               𝑜t
                                                       𝑓t
                                                                          𝐶ሚ𝑡                       𝑓𝑡 = 𝜎(𝑊𝑓 ∙ ℎ𝑡−1 , 𝑥𝑡 + 𝑏𝑓 )
                                                          𝜎      𝜎         tanh   𝜎
                                            ℎt−1                                               ℎt

                                                     𝑥t


    79   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Input Gate of LSTM
⚫        This step is to determine the information to be stored in the cell state.
⚫        It consists of two parts:
               The Sigmoid layer is called the input gate layer, which determines the value to be updated.
               A candidate value vector is created at the tanh layer and is added to the state.

                                                                                                          ℎt


                                                               𝐶t−1                                            𝐶t

                                                                                                   tanh
                                                                                 𝑖t           𝑜t
                                                                        𝑓t
                                                                                      𝐶ሚ𝑡
                                                                             𝜎   𝜎     tanh    𝜎
                                                                                                                    𝐶ሚ𝑡 = 𝑡𝑎𝑛ℎ(𝑊𝐶 ∙ ℎ𝑡−1 , 𝑥𝑡 + 𝑏𝐶 )
                                                                                                               ℎt
                                                             ℎt−1

                                                                      𝑥t




    80       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Updating LSTM Information
⚫        Time to update the earlier cell state: 𝐶𝑡−1 is updated as 𝐶𝑡 .
⚫        We multiply the earlier state by 𝑓𝑡 and discard information we decide to discard. 𝑖𝑡 *𝐶𝑡 is added.
         This is a new candidate value, which changes with the expected update of each state.



                                                 𝐶t−1                                         𝐶t
                                                                                       tanh
                                                                                  𝑜t
                                                         𝑓t       𝑖t       𝐶ሚ𝑡
                                                              𝜎     𝜎      tanh    𝜎
                                                                                              ℎt
                                                 ℎt−1
                                                                           tanh
                                                        𝑥t




    81    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Output Gate of LSTM
⚫    Run a Sigmoid layer to determine which part of the cell state will be output.
⚫    Then, we process the cell state through tanh (to obtain a value between −1 and 1) and multiply the value
     by the output of the Sigmoid gate. In the end, we output only the part we decide to output.

                                                                                                    ℎt


                                                          𝐶t−1                                           𝐶t

                                                                                             tanh
                                                                           𝑖t           𝑜t
                                                                  𝑓t
                                                                                𝐶ሚ𝑡
                                                                       𝜎   𝜎     tanh    𝜎
                                                                                                         ℎt
                                                        ℎt−1

                                                                 𝑥t




    82   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
RNN Types



            one to one                       one to many               many to one   many to many   many to many




 83   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1.       Perception
      2.       Fully-connected Neural Network and How It Is Trained
      3.       Convolutional Neural Network
      4.       Model Architecture Based on the Recurrent Neural Network
                   RNN
                   LSTM
              ◼     Seq2Seq

      5.       Transformer Architecture
      6.       Basic Foundation Model Architecture

84   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Encoder-Decoder Architecture
  ⚫    Machine translation is a core task tackled by a sequence transduction model. Both the input and output of the
       machine translation are sequences of variable lengths. An architecture with two main components is needed to
       handle them.
           1. Encoder: Uses a variable-length sequence as input and converts it into an encoding state with a fixed shape.

           2. Decoder: Maps the fixed-shape encoding state to a variable-length sequence.

  ⚫    This is referred to as the encoder‐decoder architecture:


                                              Input                          Encoder   State   Decoder   Output




                                                                                                Input


  ⚫    Models such as RNN and LSTM can be selected for the encoder and decoder.

      85    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Both the RNN and the LSTM may be selected for the encoder and the decoder.
Seq2Seq
⚫    Sequence-to-sequence (Seq2Seq): A sequence is input and another sequence is output. This is a typical
     encoder-decoder model. The encoder encodes the input data, and the decoder decodes the encoded
     data. It is also a solution to the time sequence problem.
                                                                          Encoder   Decoder




⚫    The encoding part is marked blue. The first <eos> indicates the end of encoding. The decoding part is left
     white. <bos> is the first input, indicating the start of decoding. The second <eos> indicates the end of
     decoding.

    86   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Encoder Calculation
⚫    The encoder converts the variable-length input sequence into a context variable c with a fixed shape,
     and encodes information about the input sequence in the context variable.
              It is assumed that the input sequence is x1, ..., xt, where xt is the tth lexical element in the input text sequence.
               At a time step t, the RNN converts the input feature vectors xt and ht-1 (that is, the hidden state of the previous
               time step) of the lexical element xt into ht (that is, the hidden state of the current step). A function f is used to
               describe the transformation performed by the recurrent layer of the RNN:




              The encoder converts the hidden states of all time steps into context variables by using the selected function:




    87       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Decoder Calculation
⚫    The context variable c output by the encoder encodes the entire input sequence x1, ..., xT. For the output sequence
     y1, y2, ..., yT' from the training dataset, at each time step t' (distinct from the time step t of the input sequence or
     encoder), the probability that the decoder outputs yt' depends on the previous output subsequence y1, ..., yt'-1 and
     the context variable c. In other words, the probability is P (yt'-y1, ..., yt'-1,c).
⚫    At any time step t' on the output sequence, the RNN uses the output yt'-1 from the previous time step and the
     context variable c as its input. It then converts them and the previous hidden state st'-1 to the hidden state st' at the
     current time step. Thus, a function g can be used to represent the transformation of the decoder's hidden layer:



⚫    After obtaining the decoder's hidden state, we can use the output layer and softmax operation to calculate the
     conditional probability distribution P(yt′1y1,…,yt′−1,c) of the output yt' at the time step t'.




    88   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Seq2Seq Application — Machine Translation




 89   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Seq2Seq Challenges
⚫    Although Seq2Seq can solve the sequence problem, it still has the following challenges:
              There is only one vector c between the encoder and the decoder to transfer information, and the length of c is
               fixed.
                  ◼    The semantic vector cannot completely represent information of the entire sequence. Since c has a fixed length, if the
                       input data is too long, it will be compressed to a specified length, and information will be lost. Longer input means greater
                       compression and higher information loss.
                  ◼    Long sentences are prone to information loss. In the case of c obtained through RNN encoding, earlier information tends
                       to be gradually lost over time.
              RNN-based Seq2Seq models do not support parallel computing, so the efficiency is low.
                  ◼    When calculating data at moment t, the RNN needs to output data at the previous moment, leading to low parallelism.
              CNN-based Seq2Seq has many parameters, resulting in complex training.
              During inference, a word can be predicted only after the previous word is output, slowing the inference.




    90       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1. Perception

      2. Fully-connected Neural Network and How It Is Trained

      3. Convolutional Neural Network

      4. Model Architecture Based on the Recurrent Neural Network

      5. Transformer Architecture

      6. Basic Foundation Model Architecture


91   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Addressing Seq2Seq Challenges
  ⚫    Storing all information in sequence is inefficient. Is there any way to resolve this problem?
  ⚫    Think about how humans observe things. Generally, humans have a wide field of view. They
       glance all information within their field of view, quickly capture important information, and
       ignore the rest. Can this mechanism be applied to the sequence model?




      92   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• https://3ms.huawei.com/km/static/image/detail.html?fid=61858
 Attention Mechanism
  Attention is scene and from human cognitive capabilities. For example, when people observe a
  scene or deal with an event, they usually pay attention to the salient objects in the scene and
  want to grasp the main contradiction when dealing with an event. The Attention mechanism
  enables people to focus on important aspects while ignoring minor things, increasing their
  efficiency.


                                                                                     Nature of Attention




                                                                         Focus all                   Focus on key points




   93   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• https://3ms.huawei.com/km/static/image/detail.html?fid=67539

• smartvi
Attention Principle
⚫    Attention can be used without the encoder-decoder framework. The following figure shows the
     principle of attention without the encoder-decoder framework.




    94   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Understanding Attention in Reality
⚫    There are many books (values) in a library (source). Numbers (keys) are assigned to the books
     to facilitate searches. When we want to know about Marvel (query), we can watch cartoons
     and movies and even read books related to World War II (Captain America).
                                                                             3-1 Comic books
                                                                             (read carefully)


                                                                             5-6 Movie
                                                                                                       Marvel
                                                                             books (read
                                                                             carefully)
                                                                             9-1 World
                                                                             War II (read
                                                                             quickly)
                              The Avengers movie is awesome. I
                              want to learn more.                         Find related books.   Learn about Marvel's background.


    95   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Attention Computing Process
  ⚫    Step 1: Calculate the similarity between
       the Query and each Key to obtain a score
       s.

  ⚫    Step 2: Convert the score s to a probability                         Phase 1
       distribution in the range of [0,1] through
       softmax conversion to obtain a readily
       available weight.                                                    Phase 2


  ⚫    Step 3: Use [a1, a2, a3... an] as the weight
       matrix to perform weighted summation                                 Phase 3
       on values to obtain the final Attention
       value.

      96   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• From the preceding modeling, we can feel that the idea of Attention is simple:
  "weighted summation". Refer to an inappropriate analogy. Humans learn a new
  language in four stages: rote learning (learning grammar by way of recitation) ->
  outlining points (grasping key words in sentences) -> generalizing (being able to
  understand the context and the relationship behind the language in complex
  conversations) -> reaching the peak of perfection (immersive practice).

• This is similar to the development of Attention. The RNN era is a period of rote
  learning. The Attention model has evolved into a transformer, which has excellent
  expression learning capabilities, then to GPT and BERT. A wealth of practical
  experience has accumulated through multi-task large-scale learning
Advantages of Attention
⚫    Fewer parameters: Compared with CNN and RNN, this model is less complex and has fewer parameters.
     As such, it needs less computing power.
⚫    Higher speed: Attention addresses the fact that RNN cannot perform parallel computing. The steps in the
     Attention mechanism do not depend on the previous step. As such, the Attention mechanism supports
     parallel processing, just like CNN.
⚫    Better result: Before Attention was introduced, the model would struggle to remember older
     information, just like people with a short memory cannot remember things from the past.

                                                                             Three advantages of Attention




                                                                   Fewer parameters      Higher speed        Better result


    97   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Transformer
⚫    In a 2017 paper titled Attention Is All You Need, Google proposed a
     Transformer model to process sequence-related problems based on the
     Attention (self-attention mechanism) structure.



⚫    Transformer has supported many NLP tasks, such as text classification,
     machine translation, and reading comprehension.



⚫    The Transformer model uses a whole new formula and rejects the CNN
     and RNN structures. It uses the Attention mechanism to automatically
     capture the relative associations at different positions of the input
     sequence, which is conducive to processing long texts. In addition, the
     model enables a high degree of parallelism, speeding up training.



    98   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Self-Attention
⚫    The Attention mechanism takes effect between the target element and all source elements. In
     the encoder-decoder framework of a common task, the input source and output target are
     different. For example, for English-Chinese machine translation, the source is an English
     sentence, and the target is a translated Chinese sentence.




⚫    Transformer uses the self-attention mechanism. As the name implies, self-attention refers to
     the attention mechanism used between source elements or target elements, rather than
     between the source and the target. The two mechanisms use the same computing process, but
     the object to be computed is different.



    99   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Example of Self-Attention
⚫    A variant of the attention mechanism, the self-attention mechanism is less dependent on external information and outperforms in
     capturing the internal correlation of data or features.
⚫    When applied to text, the self-attention mechanism primarily addresses the long-distance dependency problem by calculating the
     relationships between words.



                                                                           If you want to know what "its" refers to and which words are relevant to
                                                                           "its" in this sentence, you can use "its" as a query, this sentence as a key
                                                                           and a value to calculate the value of attention. Through self-attention,
                                                                           we find that "its" is most relevant to "law" and "application."




⚫    The self-attention mechanism focuses more on its own relationships. Therefore, the encoder and decoder of the self-attention
     mechanism can be used separately, which further generates different types of network structures.
    100   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
      Contents

       1. Perception

       2. Fully-connected Neural Network and How It Is Trained

       3. Convolutional Neural Network

       4. Model Architecture Based on the Recurrent Neural Network

       5. Transformer Architecture

       6. Basic Foundation Model Architecture


101   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
State of Foundation Models
⚫    With higher computing capabilities and
                                                                                                             Age of foundation models
     more data, we can train larger and deeper                                                                Model sizes have expanded
                                                                                                              significantly thanks to the
     neural networks. Foundation models, such                                                                 scalability and increased
                                                                                                              computing power of
     as the GPT series, LLaMA, and GLM, are                                                                   Transformer, creating models
                                                                                                              with billions of parameters,
     trained with powerful generation and                                                                     such as GPT 4, GLM, and
                                                                                                              stablediffusion.
     generalization capabilities based on massive
     amounts of data and computing resources.
⚫    These      models      achieve     excellent                               Transformer
                                                                           Thanks to Transformer, we
     performance on a single task but can also                             have shifted away from RNN
                                                                           and CNN, which has enabled
     quickly adapt to new tasks and data through                           algorithms with excellent
                                                                           performance, such as Bert, GPT,
     fine-tuning.                                                          and ViT.




    102   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  GPT - 1

     Original Transformer Decoder                                          GPT-1 Decoder




    103   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• GPT-1, the first version of OpenAI, is called GPT.

• Using Transformer instead of LSTM is because that, although pre-training helps capture
  some language information, the LSTM model limits its prediction capability in the short
  term. However, Transformer enables us to capture longer-term language structures while
  achieving better generalization performance in other different tasks.


•GPT-1 uses the decoder framework of
 Transformer.
• GPT-1 retains the masked multi-attention layer and feed forward layer of the decoder and
  expands the network scale. The number of layers is increased to 12. GPT-1 also increases
  the number of dimensions of Attention to 768 (originally 512) and the number of heads of
  Attention to 12 (originally 8). The number of hidden layers at the Feed Forward layer is
  increased from 2048 to 3072. The total number of parameters reaches 117 million.

• For the positional encoding part, GPT-1 is sharply different from a common transformer.
  The positional encoding of a common transformer is represented by cosine + sine, while
  GPT-1 uses random initialization similar to that of a word vector. In addition, update is
   performed during training, that is, each location is considered an embedding to be learned.
Bert
⚫    Released in 2018, BERT is a
     bidirectional    model      that
     analyzes the context of a
                                                                            T1    T2   …   Tn                  Add & Norm
     complete sequence and then
     performs predictions. This                                                                                Feed Forward
                                                                           Trm   Trm   …   Trm
     model is trained on a plain text
                                                                                                               Add & Norm
     corpus and Wikipedia using 3.3
     billion words and 340 million                                                                              Multi-Head
                                                                                                                Attention
     parameters.                                                           Trm   Trm   …   Trm
                                                                                                 Positional
⚫    BERT can answer questions,                                                                  Encoding

     predict                  statements,                         and                  …                      Input Embedding
                                                                           E1    E2        En
     translate text.
                                                                                                                  Inputs

    104   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Multi-domain Task Processing
  ⚫    In the past, neural network models were used to cope with single work challenges. Each model
       was used for only one or several tasks.

                                                                                        Task A
                                                                                                        Model A




                                                                                         Task B
                                                                                                        Model B

  ⚫    Can one model process tasks in multiple domains?

                                                       Task A                                                                  Result A

                                                                             Multiple                             Multi-task
                                                                              tasks                               processing
                                                                                                                    results
                                                       Task N
                                                                                        Comprehensive
                                                                                                                               Result N
                                                                                           model


      105   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• In actual data distribution, there are many natural subsets, such as different domains,
  topics, languages, and modalities. When a single model is used for learning and the model
  capacity is small, different subsets interfere with model fitting, causing slow model training
  and difficult generalization.

• For a conventional learning model, training is intended to enable a final model to execute a
  plurality of tasks in different scenarios. However, when the model updates the weight of a
  scenario, such training also affect the weights of the model for another scenarios. The
  mutual impact of the weights is called interference effect. The stronger the interference
  effect, the slower the learning speed of the model and the poorer the generalization of
  the model.
  MoE
  ⚫    Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) is a model design strategy that combines multiple models ("experts") to
       achieve better prediction performance.
  ⚫    MoE can effectively improve the capacity and efficiency of a foundation model. Generally, MoE uses a
       gating mechanism along with a set of output mechanisms to combine and balance expert selection,
       ultimately determining the final prediction for each expert. The expert selection mechanism chooses
       specific experts for prediction based on the gating mechanism's output.




      106   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Model size is one of the key factors for improving model performance. This is why today's
  foundation models are resultful. With a limited computing resource budget, training a
  larger model with fewer training steps is usually better than training a smaller model with
  more steps.

• A significant advantage of MoE is that effective pre-training can be performed with far less
  computing resources than what the Dense model requires. This means that you can
  significantly scale up your model or dataset under the same computational budget.
  Especially in the pre-training phase, the hybrid expert model can usually achieve the same
  quality level more quickly than the Dense model.
         Quiz

          1.       (Single-choice question) Which of the following is not a deep learning neural network? (   )

                 A. CNN

                 B. RNN

                 C. LSTM

                 D. Logistic




   107   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• 1.D
         Quiz

          2.       (Multi-choice question) Which of the following are components of the CNN? (   )

                 A. Activation function

                 B. Convolution kernel

                 C. Pooling

                 D. Fully-connected layer




   108   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• 2.ABCD
         Quiz

          3.       (True or false) Compared with the RNN, the CNN is more suitable for image recognition. (
                   )

                  A. True

                  B. False




   109   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• 3.A
        Quiz

         4.       (True or false) Transformer uses the encoder-decoder architecture. Therefore, it has
                  features similar to Seq2Seq. (                         )

                 A. True

                 B. False




  110   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• B
      Summary

       ⚫     This chapter discusses the training process of deep neural networks, including
             multiple network architectures developed from conventional artificial neural
             networks. Finally, it describes the infrastructure for building large models.




111   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Thank you.   把数字世界带入每个人、每个家庭、
             每个组织，构建万物互联的智能世界。
             Bring digital to every person, home, and
             organization for a fully connected,
             intelligent world.

             Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

             The information in this document may contain predictive
             statements including, without limitation, statements regarding
             the future financial and operating results, future product
             portfolio, new technology, etc. There are a number of factors that could
             cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those
             expressed or implied in the predictive statements. Therefore, such
             information is provided for reference purpose only and constitutes
             neither an offer nor an acceptance. Huawei may change the information
             at any time without notice.
Artificial Intelligence Development Framework
    Foreword

     ⚫     Recent decades have seen explosive growth in the research and application of deep
           learning. This has given rise to the third tide of Artificial Intelligence (AI)
           development, achieving particular success in image recognition, speech recognition
           and synthesis, autonomous driving, and machine vision. These advances require
           more advanced algorithms and underlying frameworks.
     ⚫     Ongoing development in deep learning frameworks has made it easier to use
           extensive computational resources to train neural network models on large datasets.
           This section describes the use of AI frameworks and the process of developing AI
           applications.


2   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
    Objectives

     ⚫      Upon completing this course, you will be able to understand:
                  Mainstream development frameworks
                  How AI applications are developed
                  How to use the PyTorch framework




3   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
    Contents

     1. AI Framework
             ◼     Functions of AI Development Frameworks
                  Introduction to Mainstream AI Development Frameworks

     2. Basics of AI Development Frameworks

     3. PyTorch

     4. AI Application Development Process




4   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  AI Development Framework
                                                                                                                                   01. Data pre-processing
         Algorithm                                             Natural language        Recommendation        Scientific
                              Computer vision
                                                                                          and search
                                                                                                                             ...   Pre-processes various data from audio, video,
        application                                              processing                                 computing
                                                                                                                                   images, and text (data conversion and
                                                                                                                                   enhancement).
                                                                                                                                   02. Development APIs
        AI framework                                                                                                               Provides developers with integrated, full-
                                                                                                                                   process AI development APIs, accelerating
                  PyTorch                                                                               TensorFlow
                                                                                                                                   research and development.
                                                                                                                                   03. Debugging and tuning
                       Model development suite                                           Model acceleration suite                  Provides visualized debugging and tuning
                                                                                                                                   capabilities to help view and trace model
                                                                                                                                   training.

                                                                                            Compiling and                          04. Compiling and execution
                      Data                     Development                Visualized                             Efficient
                   processing                      APIs                                       execution                            Compiles user code and implements high-
                                                                          debugging                            deployment
                                                                                                                                   performance training through full-stack
                                                                                                                                   hardware-software synergy.

                                                                                                                                   05. Inference deployment
                                                                                                                                   Implements model delivery and computing
        Hardware enablement                                                                                                        scheduling, supports quick deployment for
                                                                                                                                   industry customers, and maximizes the computing
                                                                                                                                   power of AI chips.


    5    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• The emergence of deep learning frameworks lowers the requirements for developers.
  Developers no long need to compile code starting from complex neural networks and back-
  propagation algorithms. Instead, they can use existing models to configure parameters as
  required, where the model parameters are automatically trained. Moreover, you can add
  self-defined network layers to the existing models, or select required classifiers and
  optimization algorithms.
Functions of the AI Development Framework
                                                                                 Model
                                  Preparations                                                                        Training evaluation                       Inference deployment
                                                                                 development
                        Data preparation and                           Model          Model                 Model          Accuracy                  Model           Inference
   Model                     processing                               building      debugging              training       evaluation               conversion       deployment
development
  process                                                                                Iterative optimization


                       Accelerates scientific
                       research and                                                    Enables stable and high-                                  Makes inference
                       development                                                     performance training                                      deployment easier


     •     Provides easy-to-use and extensive                                •    Enables full-stack software-                         •   Provides hardware access
           programming APIs                                                       hardware synergy for high-                               capabilities
     •     Allows developers to complete                                          performance training                                 •   Simplifies technical details of the
           model development with ease                                       •    Provides functions such as                               underlying hardware
     •     Unifies data and other APIs, making                                    automatic differentiation and                        •   Solves difficulties in model
           scientific research and experiments                                    automatic parallelization                                adaptation and deployment
           easier                                                            •    Optimizes model compilation and
                                                                                  training




 6   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Front-end Programming Interface
     With the AI framework, developers can focus on the service logic
     of applications without worrying about the underlying
     mathematical and computing details.

                             Interfaces with multiple programming languages and
                            provides programming styles that comply with language        Provides encapsulated APIs, such as CNN and RNN.
                                       features, such as PyTorch-python.             Provides common modules and deep learning components.

                                                                                                                           Forward computation
                                                                                    Quickly implements
                                                                                    algorithms, without
                                                                                    worrying about the
                                                                                    underlying logic.



                                   Deep learning                        AI development
                                   algorithm                            framework                                         Backward computation
                                                                                                                            Model structure


 7     Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Computing Optimization and Scheduling
    The AI framework abstracts model structure computing into
    computational graphs. It understands, expresses, and executes a
    neural network model through a common data structure (tensor).
    It also automatically differentiates based on computational
    graphs.
              Forward computation


                                                                                                                                    Hardware-based training
                                                                                                  Graph optimization




                                                                          AI development
                                                                          framework
              Backward computation
             Model   structure


                                                                         The AI framework usually further optimizes the computational graph to improve the
                                                                         computational efficiency.
                                                                         It also schedules the graph and manages the memory through the computational
                                                                         graph execution process.
    8   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• After the model structure is built, the AI framework converts the model into a
  computational graph and further optimizes the computational graph before execution.
Model Training and Deployment


                                                                                   Distributed training is typically used for training
                                                                                   large models. Some AI frameworks provide
                                                                                   functions such as model segmentation and
                                                                                   distributed policies.

                                                                      Model training and              Application
                                                                        optimization                  deployment




                                        AI development                                 Deep learning model
                                        framework

                                                                                   The AI framework provides inference deployment
                                                                                   tools.


 9   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1. AI Framework
                   Functions of AI Development Frameworks
              ◼     Mainstream AI Development Frameworks

      2. Basics of AI Development Frameworks

      3. PyTorch

      4. AI Application Development Process




10   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
AI Frameworks
⚫    Today, there are many AI development frameworks,
     each with its own unique characteristics and serving
     different domains and scenarios.                                         PyTorch
⚫    PyTorch is a popular development framework for
     foundation models.
                                                                          TensorFlow
                                                                          PaddlePaddle   JAX
                                                                           OneFlow       MXNet


    11   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
PyTorch
⚫    PyTorch is a machine learning computing framework released by Meta. It was developed based
     on Torch, a scientific computing framework supported by many machine learning algorithms.
     Torch is a tensor operation library similar to NumPy, which is highly flexible. However, NumPy is
     less popular because it uses the niche programming language Lua. This is why PyTorch was
     developed.
⚫    PyTorch is a tensor library optimized for deep learning using GPUs and NPUs. It is one of the
     most common deep learning frameworks.




    12   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
PyTorch Characteristics
⚫    Python first: PyTorch does not simply bind Python to the C++ framework. Instead, it directly
     supports Python access at a granular level. Developers can use PyTorch as easily as using
     NumPy or SciPy.
⚫    Dynamic neural network: By default, PyTorch uses dynamic computational graphs. Programs
     can dynamically build or adjust computational graphs during execution.
⚫    Easy debugging: PyTorch can generate dynamic graphs during execution, and developers can
     stop the interpreter in the debugger and view the output of a specific node.
⚫    Rich ecosystem: PyTorch has an active community with many documents, tutorials, models, and
     tools.


    13   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
TensorFlow
⚫    TensorFlow is an end-to-end open-source machine learning platform designed by Google.
     Currently, the main version is TensorFlow 2.X.
⚫    TensorFlow provides multiple levels of APIs. For example, you can use advanced Keras APIs to
     quickly build and train models.
⚫    For large deep learning training tasks, you can use the Distribution Strategy API (for distributed
     training across processing units) to perform distributed training on different hardware
     configurations without changing the model definition.

                                                                          Distribution
                                                                          Strategy API




    14   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
TensorFlow Production Tools
⚫    TensorFlow.js: a library for developing and training machine learning models in JavaScript. It can
     be deployed on browsers or Node.js.
⚫    TensorFlow Lite: an open-source deep learning framework for on-device inference. It can be
     used to deploy machine learning models on mobile and IoT devices.
⚫    TensorFlow Extended (TFX): an end-to-end platform for deploying production machine learning
     pipelines. When you are ready to move trained models from research to production, use TFX to
     create and manage a production pipeline.




    15   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
JAX
⚫    JAX is a high-performance numerical computing library developed by Google. It combines
     NumPy-like APIs, the automatic differentiation function of Autograd, and the XLA compiler of
     TensorFlow, implementing efficient computing across CPUs, GPUs, and TPUs.
⚫    Compared with TensorFlow 2.x, it provides:
              Functional programming APIs.
              Higher computing efficiency.




                                      pip install jax                         # Linux, Windows, and macOS
                                      pip install -U "jax[cuda12]"            # GPU


    16       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Advantages and Disadvantages of JAX
⚫    Advantages:
              Simplicity and ease of use: JAX is designed to minimize encapsulation and redundant operations,
               making its APIs simple and easy-to-use.
              High performance: JAX delivers excellent computing performance through the XLA-based
               optimization and accelerated execution on GPUs and TPUs.
              Flexibility: The functional programming style and composable function transformations of JAX make it
               highly flexible and easy to integrate with other libraries and frameworks.

⚫    Disadvantages:
              Weak community ecosystem: Compared with deep learning frameworks such as PyTorch, JAX has a
               relatively small community ecosystem and fewer documentation resources.

    17       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1. AI Framework

      2. Basics of AI Development Frameworks
              ◼     Basics
                   Computational Graph

      3. PyTorch

      4. AI Application Development Process




18   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Tensor
⚫    A tensor is the most basic data structure in an AI development framework. All data is encapsulated in
     tensors.
⚫    Definition: a multidimensional array
              Zero-order tensor: scalar
              First-order tensor: vector
              Second-order tensor: matrix




    19       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Tensor Attributes


                           Tensor Attribute                                                         Function

                                       Shape                           Size of each tensor dimension, for example, [N,C,H,W].
                                                                       Number of tensor dimensions; the value is 0 for a scalar and 1
                  Rank or dimension (dim)
                                                                       for a vector.

                                                                       Data type of a tensor, for example, bool, uint8, int16, float32,
                          Data type (dtype)
                                                                       and float64.

                                                                       Position of the device where the tensor is located, for example,
                  Storage position (device)
                                                                       NPU or GPU.
                                       Name                            Tensor identifier.



 20   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Data Types
⚫    Currently, AI development frameworks support
     the following data types: numeric (such as float32,
     float16, int8, and bf16), bool, and complex. (Some
     frameworks may also support data types of certain
     hardware.)
⚫    Data types and programming languages can be
     used across different AI development frameworks.




    21   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Data Loading
⚫    AI development frameworks provide data loading modules, which can directly load some open-
     source datasets, such as MNIST, CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, VOC, COCO and ImageNet.
              For example, torchvision.datasets.CIFAR10 in PyTorch can directly load CIFAR-10 data. (The data is
               automatically downloaded if it does not exist locally.)


                    # Download and load the training set (when it is not stored locally).
                    # Transform is the transformation operation performed on data.
                    trainset = torchvision.datasets.CIFAR10(root='./data', train=True, download=True, transform=transform)




    22       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Data Format After Loading
⚫    A loaded dataset usually takes the form of a multidimensional tensor.
              Sequence data is usually a 3-dimensional tensor in the [batch_size, sequence_length, feature_length]
               format.
                  ◼    For example, sentence embedding in NLP is expressed as [batch size, sentence length, word embedding
                       dimension].

              Image data is usually a 4-dimensional tensor in the [N,H,W,C] format. N indicates the batch data size,
               H and W indicate the pixel height and width of the image, and C indicates the number of channels.
                  ◼    In PyTorch, the default format of received image data tensors is [N,C,H,W].
                  ◼    In TensorFlow, the default format of received image tensors is [N,H,W,C].




    23       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
TFRecord
⚫    If a dataset has a lot of data, it can be more efficient
     to serialize the data and store it in a group of files                       File Header

     that can be linearly read. This method is particularly                   Scalar Data Page 1

     suitable for streaming data over the network. It is                      Scalar Data Page 2

     also useful for pre-processing when buffering any                        Block Data Page 1
     data.
                                                                              Scalar Data Page 3
              Example: TFRecord in TensorFlow.                                                      Index
                                                                              Block Data Page 2
              These data formats reduce the disk I/O and
                                                                                   Data File       Index File
               network I/O overhead.




    24       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Model File
AI development frameworks can execute inference tasks on different hardware platforms using trained models.

Inference model files support two types of data: training parameters and network models.

             File Format                                               Description                                                       Application Scenario

                                         It uses the Protocol Buffers format and stores all parameter values on
                                                                                                                   It is generally used to resume training after a training task is
      Checkpoint (.ckpt)                 the network by default. You can also configure it to store the model
                                                                                                                   interrupted or to fine-tune a task after training.
                                         structure and training status.
                                         The Open Neural Network Exchange (ONNX) is a general expression           It is normally used for model migration between different
      ONNX (.onnx)
                                         for machine learning models.                                              frameworks or on the inference engine (TensorRT).
                                         This is a common binary format used to save and load various models       A PyTorch model needs to be converted into a common binary
      bin (.bin)
                                         and data.                                                                 format.
                                         This is the default model file format of PyTorch, which is used to save   A complete PyTorch model needs to be saved and loaded. For
      .pt or .pth                        and load a complete PyTorch model, including the model structure          example, the optimal model needs to be saved during training,
                                         and parameters.                                                           or the trained model needs to be loaded during deployment.




 25   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1. AI Framework

      2. Basics of AI Development Frameworks
                   Basics
              ◼     Computational Graph

      3. PyTorch

      4. AI Application Development Process




26   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Computational Graph
⚫    A computational graph provides an intuitive way to describe the computation process in a deep
     learning model. Each node represents a computation operation, for example, addition,
     multiplication, and activation function. An edge represents a flow of data between these
     operations. This structured representation method makes complex computation easy to
     understand and analyze.
              Quickly performs automatic differentiation.
              Helps find network parallelism and optimization points.




    27       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Composition of the Computational Graph
  ⚫    A computational graph contains tensors (basic data structure) and operators (basic operation
       units).
  ⚫    The operator nodes in a graph are connected with directed edges, which indicate the state of
       each tensor and dependencies between the operations.

                                      Tensor X
                                                                            Matmul   Sigmoid   Tensor Y

                                     Tensor W




      28   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• A node represents a variable or operation. The input nodes represent input data or
  parameters, and the intermediate node and the output node represent the calculation
  result.

• The nodes are connected with edges, indicating the data flow or computation
  dependencies. Each edge usually connects output from one operation to input of another
  operation.
From Front-end Language to a Computational Graph
⚫    A computational graph is a way to represent mathematical functions with the graph theory
     language. It is a standardized method used by deep learning frameworks to express neural
     network models.
                                                                              Front-end programming
class _DenseLayer(nn.Module):                                                languages and interfaces:
   def __init__(                                                                    Build model
      self, num_input_features: int, growth_rate: int, bn_size:
                                                                             Intermediate model
int, drop_rate: float, memory_efficient: bool = False                          representation:
   ) -> None:                                                             Computational graph IR (DAG)
      super().__init__()
      self.norm1 = nn.Linear()                                                 Auto            Graph
      self.relu1 = nn.ReLU(inplace=True)                                  differentiation   optimization
      ...
   def forward(self, x):                                                   Optimization, scheduling, and
      ...                                                                          compilation


                                                                          Computing hardware: Efficient
                                                                                  execution



    29   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Dynamic/Static Computational Graph
⚫    Currently, mainstream deep learning frameworks can generate two types of computational
     graphs, static and dynamic.
                                                                          Static Graph                      Dynamic Graph
                                                     When the program is compiled and         The program is executed in the coding
                                                     executed, the graph structure of the     sequence. During forward execution, the
                         Execution                   neural network is generated first,       reverse execution diagram is dynamically
                                                     followed by the computation operations   generated based on the backpropagation
                                                     involved in the graph.                   principle.
                                                     The compiler uses technologies like      The compiler delivers and executes the
                                                     graph optimization to further optimize   operators on the neural network one by
                       Advantages
                                                     the execution graph, achieving higher    one, making it easy to build and debug
                                                     execution performance.                   neural network models.
                                                     Not user-friendly for developers and     Inefficient and difficult to optimize.
                     Disadvantages
                                                     difficult to debug.




    30   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Dynamic Computational Graph
⚫    A dynamic computational graph is constructed during running.
⚫    Advantages:
              Instant execution: Operations are computed in real time. The graph structure can be adjusted anytime as required.
              Flexibility: It is easy to process various data sizes. It supports complex control flow operations.
              Easy to debug: Due to on-demand computation, developers can easily use debugging tools of programming languages like
               Python to check for errors.
              Research-friendly: Researchers can try different ideas and quickly iterate models during experiments.
              Intuitiveness: Dynamic computational graphs are easier to understand and use for beginners.
⚫    Disadvantages:
              The graph may cause extra overhead during running, resulting in lower performance than static computational graphs.
              Due to the dynamic graph structure, these graphs cannot be optimized as thoroughly as static computational graphs.




    31       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Using Dynamic Graphs in TensorFlow
                            import tensorflow as tf
                            import time

                            # Data initialization
                            x = tf.Variable(tf.random.normal([512, 1024])) # Batch size 512
                            W = tf.Variable(tf.random.normal([1024, 1024]))

                            # Performance test configuration
                            iterations = 1000

                            # Execution timing
                            start_time = time.perf_counter()
                            for _ in range(iterations):
                              _ = tf.matmul(x, W) # Immediate execution mode
                            dynamic_duration = time.perf_counter() - start_time

                            print(f"[Dynamic Graph] {iterations} iterations took {dynamic_duration:.4f} seconds")

                            # [Dynamic Graph] 1000 iterations took 1.2873 seconds


 32   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Static Computational Graph
⚫    A static computational graph is defined before running.
⚫    Advantages:
              Predefinition: The entire computational graph needs to be defined before execution.
              Optimization: Because the graph structure is fixed, the framework can be further optimized, such as memory
               allocation and parallel computing, to improve the runtime performance.
              Deployment-friendly: Static computational graphs are suitable for production environments and mobile devices
               because their runtime performance is usually higher.
              Portability: Static computational graphs can be exported into a format independent from the framework and can
               be easily deployed in different environments.
⚫    Disadvantages:
              These graphs require more complex coding, especially when complex control flows are involved.
              Because they are defined before running, debugging may be less intuitive than dynamic computational graphs.


    33       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Using Static Graphs in TensorFlow
import tensorflow.compat.v1 as tf
import time
tf.disable_v2_behavior()
# Computational graph construction
x = tf.placeholder(tf.float32, shape=[None, 1024], name='input')
W = tf.Variable(tf.random_normal([1024, 1024]), name='weights')
y = tf.matmul(x, W) # Matrix multiplication

# Performance test configuration
iterations = 1000
input_data = tf.random.normal([512, 1024]) # Batch size 512                           [Static Graph] 1000 iterations took
# Execution timing
                                                                                      0.3214 seconds
with tf.Session() as sess:
  sess.run(tf.global_variables_initializer())

  start_time = time.perf_counter()
  for _ in range(iterations):
    sess.run(y, feed_dict={x: input_data.eval()})
  static_duration = time.perf_counter() - start_time

print(f"[Static Graph] {iterations} iterations took {static_duration:.4f} seconds")


  34   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Computational Graphs in TensorFlow and PyTorch

                                                              PyTorch                  TensorFlow
                                                                        In Tf2.x, the dynamic graph mode is used
                                                                        by default.
                            The dynamic graph mode is used by
                                                                        You can also run
                            default.
                                                                        tf.enable_eager_execution () to manually
                                                                        enable the dynamic graph mode.
                                                                        In Tf1.x, the static graph mode is used by
                            You can use the torch.jit.trace and
                                                                        default.
                            torch.jit.script functions to improve the
                                                                        In Tf2.x, you can use tf.function to
                            efficiency of static graphs.
                                                                        implement static graphs.




 35   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1. AI Framework

      2. Basics of AI Development Frameworks

      3. PyTorch
              ◼     Basic Modules
                   Implementation of the LeNet Network Structure

      4. AI Application Development Process




36   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Common PyTorch Modules
      Common PyTorch Module                                                                              Function
 torch                                             The core PyTorch module, which provides functions such as tensor operations and linear algebra.
 torch.nn                                          Constructs neural networks and provides the network layer, loss function, and activation function.

 torch.utils.data                                  Provides tools for data loading and pre-processing.

 torch.autograd                                    PyTorch's automatic differentiation engine, which supports gradient calculation and is mainly used for gradient
                                                   backpropagation after the loss function is obtained.
 torch.optim                                       Provides multiple optimization algorithms for model parameter updates and optimization.

 torch.device                                      Specifies the device on which tensors and models should run, allowing switching between the CPU and the GPU.

 torch.distributions                               Provides a series of classes to enable PyTorch to sample different distributions and generate computational graphs for
                                                   the probabilistic sampling process.
 torch.jit                                         PyTorch's instant compiler module, which can convert dynamic graphs into static ones for optimization and
                                                   serialization.
 torch.random                                      Provides a series of methods to save and set the status of the random number generator, which helps debug the
                                                   structure and performance of neural networks.
 torch.onnx                                        Defines the deep learning model description files exported and loaded by PyTorch in the ONNX format, enabling
                                                   model exchanges with other deep learning frameworks.


 37    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
torchvision
              torchvision is a library specifically designed for computer vision in the PyTorch ecosystem.

                        torchvision Module                                                                    Function
                                                                       Provides multiple widely used image and video datasets, such as MNIST, CIFAR10/100,
                                                                       Fashion-MNIST, ImageNet and COCO. These datasets can be directly used to train and
                torchvision.datasets
                                                                       evaluate visual models such as image classification, object detection, and semantic
                                                                       segmentation.
                                                                       Supports various data augmentation and pre-processing operations, including
                                                                       cropping, rotation, flipping, normalization, resizing, and color conversion. These
                torchvision.transforms
                                                                       operations are critical to training robust deep learning models, and can improve the
                                                                       quality and diversity of training data.
                                                                       Encapsulates many pre-trained model structures, such as AlexNet, VGG, ResNet,
                                                                       Inception series, DenseNet, and SqueezeNet, as well as models for object detection
                torchvision.models
                                                                       and semantic segmentation tasks. These models can be directly loaded for transfer
                                                                       learning or extended as the basic network structure.
                                                                       Provides a number of practical methods, for example, saving tensors as image files
                torchvision.utils                                      and creating image grids to visualize multiple samples, to help visualize and analyze
                                                                       experiment results.



 38   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Data Loading
⚫    PyTorch data is loaded through Dataset and DataLoader. Dataset defines the data format and
     how data is transformed. DataLoader continuously and interactively reads batch data.
              torch.utils.data.Dataset is the base class for constructing datasets. By inheriting this class and
               rewriting the __init__, __len__, and __getitem__ methods, you can provide your own data and
               labels.
              torch.utils.data.DataLoader is an iterator used to load datasets. It provides functions such as batch
               loading, data disordering, and multi-process data loading. You need to pass a Dataset object when
               using it.


             # Define a Dataset. The following uses the open-source data in PyTorch as an example.
             trainset = torchvision.datasets.CIFAR10(root='./data', train=True, download=True, transform=transform)
             # Use DataLoader to load the dataset.
             trainloader = DataLoader(trainset, batch_size=64, shuffle=True)



    39       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Other Methods of Constructing Datasets
⚫    torchvision.datasets.ImageFolder: a class used to load image datasets from a folder. It assumes
     that all files are stored in folders, and files in each folder belong to the same category.
⚫    Other open-source datasets:

                           API Name                                                                              Description
     torchvision.datasets.MNIST                                           A class used to load the MNIST handwritten digit dataset. You only need to specify the
                                                                          data's root directory and some other parameters to automatically download the dataset.
     torchvision.datasets.CIFAR10                                         CIFAR10 is another class in the torchvision library for loading the standard dataset
                                                                          (CIFAR-10). This dataset contains 60,000 32 x 32 color images divided into 10 categories.
                                                                          Each category includes 6000 images.
     torchvision.datasets.CIFAR100                                        Similar to CIFAR10, CIFAR100 includes 100 categories, and each category includes 600
                                                                          images. This dataset is also used for image classification tasks.

     torchvision.datasets.ImageNet                                        ImageNet is a large image dataset containing millions of images in thousands of
                                                                          categories.


    40   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Model Construction
⚫    torch.nn.Module is a model construction class in PyTorch. It is the base class of all neural
     network modules and can be inherited to define models.
⚫    When defining a model, reload the __init__ and forward functions, which are used to create
     model parameters and define forward computation (forward propagation), respectively.
                                                            import torch
                                                            from torch import nn

                                                            class MLP(nn.Module):
                                                             # Declare a layer with model parameters. Here, two fully connected layers are
                                                            declared.
                                                             def __init__(self, **kwargs):

                                                                super(MLP, self).__init__(**kwargs)
                                                                self.hidden = nn.Linear(784, 256)
                                                                self.act = nn.ReLU()
                                                                self.output = nn.Linear(256,10)


    41   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Forward Computation

                                                   class MLP(nn.Module):
                                                    # Declare a layer with model parameters.
                                                    def __init__(self, **kwargs):
                                                        ...

                                                    # Forward computation of the model, that is, how to compute and
                                                   return the required model output based on the input x.
                                                    def forward(self, x):
                                                        o = self.act(self.hidden(x))
                                                        return self.output(o)

⚫    You do not need to define a backpropagation function. The system automatically generates the
     backward function required for backpropagation by automatically calculating the gradient.



    42   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Two-dimensional Convolutional Layer
⚫    torch.nn.Conv2d(in_channels, out_channels, kernel_size, stride=1, padding=0, dilation=1, groups=1,
     bias=True, padding_mode='zeros', device=None, dtype=None):
              A class for implementing the two-dimensional convolution operation.
              in_channels: number of image input channels. For example, for a color RGB image, the value of in_channels is 3.
              out_channels: number of output channels (number of convolution kernels) after convolution.
              kernel_size: size of the convolution kernel.
                                                                              # Define a two-dimensional convolutional layer
              stride: convolution stride.                                    conv_layer = nn.Conv2d(in_channels, out_channels, kernel_size, stride=1,
                                                                              padding=0, bias=True)
              padding: number of zero padding layers.
                                                                               # Input data (Assume that the number of input images is batch_size, the number
                                                                              of input channels is in_channels, and the size is height x width.)
                                                                              input_tensor = torch.randn(batch_size, in_channels, height, width)

                                                                              # Pass through the convolutional layer
                                                                              output_tensor = conv_layer(input_tensor)




    43       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Max Pooling
⚫    torch.nn.MaxPool2d(kernel_size, stride=None, padding=0, dilation=1, return_indices=False,
     ceil_mode=False):
              Implements two-dimensional max pooling.
              kernel_size (int or tuple): size of the pooling window.
              stride (int or tuple, optional): stride during pooling. The default value is kernel_size.
              padding (int or tuple, optional): number of zero padding layers on each edge of the input feature
               map. The default value is 0.      conv_layer = nn.Conv2d(in_channels, out_channels, kernel_size, stride=1, padding=0,
                                                                              bias=True)

                                                                               # Input data (Assume that the number of input images is batch_size, the number of input
                                                                              channels is in_channels, and the size is height x width.)
                                                                              input_tensor = torch.randn(batch_size, in_channels, height, width)

                                                                              # Pass through the convolutional layer.
                                                                              output_tensor = conv_layer(input_tensor)



    44       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Recurrent Neural Network
⚫    torch.nn.RNN(input_size, hidden_size, num_layers = 1, nonlinearity = 'tanh', bias = True, batch_first =
     False , dropout = 0.0, bidirectional = False, device = None, dtype = None):
                                                                              # Define the RNN model.
              Defines the basic recurrent neural network (RNN).              rnn = nn.RNN(input_size=10, hidden_size=20, num_layers=1,
                                                                              batch_first=True)
              input_size: dimension of the input feature.
                                                                              # Create input data.
              hidden_size: dimension of the hidden layer feature.            inputs = torch.randn(5, 3, 10) # The sequence length is 5, batc_size is
                                                                              3, and the input feature dimension is 10.
                                                                              h0 = torch.zeros(1, 3, 20) # Initially the model is in hidden state, and
              num_layers: number of RNN layers.
                                                                              the shape is [num_layers, batch_size, hidden_size].
                                                                              # Forward Propagation.
              bias: Indicates whether to use the bias.                       output, hn = rnn(inputs, h0)

              nonlinearity: nonlinear activation function. The value is tanh or relu. The default value is tanh.
              batch_first: If the value is True, the first dimension of the input and output is the batch size.




    45       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
PyTorch Activation Functions
⚫    Use the activation function class in the nn module and the activation functions in nn.functional.

         Activation Function                                Calling Method                                Calling Method Description

                                          nn.Sigmoid()                        The following uses Sigmoid as an example:
         Sigmoid
                                          F.sigmoid(input)                    Use nn.Sigmoid () to construct the Sigmoid layer (instantiated object) and then
                                                                              call this layer.
                                          nn.Tanh()
         Tanh                                                                 Or, use F.sigmoid (input) to directly apply the Sigmoid function to the input.
                                          F.tanh(input)
                                          nn.ReLU()
         ReLU                                                                 import torch
                                          F.relu(input)
                                                                              import torch.nn as nn
                                          nn.LeakyReLU(negative_slope=0.01)   import torch.nn.functional as F
         LeakyReLU                        F.leaky_relu(input,                 # Create an input tensor.
                                          negative_slope=0.01)                input_tensor = torch.tensor([[-1.0, 0.0, 1.0], [-2.0, -1.0, 0.0]])
                                                                              # Create a Sigmoid layer instance.
                                          nn.ELU()                            sigmoid_layer = nn.Sigmoid()
         ELU
                                          F.elu(input)
                                                                              # Transfer the input data to the Sigmoid layer.
                                          nn.PReLU()                          output_tensor = sigmoid_layer(input_tensor)
         PReLU
                                          F.prelu(input)
                                                                              # Directly apply the Sigmoid activation function to the input data.
                                          nn.Softmax(dim=None)                output_tensor = F.sigmoid(input_tensor)
         Softmax
                                          F.softmax(input, dim=None)

    46     Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Loss Functions
⚫    PyTorch provides multiple loss functions.
             Function Name                                                Calling Method                                Description
                                                                                                       Calculates the average of the absolute
    L1 loss (average absolute
                                                         torch.nn.L1Loss(reduction='mean')             differences between the predicted value and
    error)
                                                                                                       the actual value.
                                                                                                       Calculates the average square of the
    Mean square error loss                               torch.nn.MSELoss(reduction='mean')            differences between the predicted value and
                                                                                                       the actual value.
                                                         torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss(weight=None,        Combines LogSoftMax and NLLLoss for
    Cross-entropy loss
                                                         reduction='mean')                             multiclass classification.
                                                                                                       Calculates the binary cross entropy between
                                                         torch.nn.BCELoss(weight=None,
    Binary cross-entropy loss                                                                          the target value and the predicted value for
                                                         reduction='mean')
                                                                                                       binary classification.

    Connection timing                                                                                  Automatically aligns unaligned data for
                                                         torch.nn.CTCLoss(blank=0, reduction='mean')
    classification loss (CTCLoss)                                                                      serialized data training.


    47   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
PyTorch Optimizers
 Optimizer Name                                                 Calling Method                                                     Description
                                                                                                 params: parameters to be optimized; lr: learning rate; momentum: momentum
                                                                                                 factor, which is used to accelerate the convergence of SGD in the related
                            torch.optim.SGD(params, lr=0.01, momentum=0, dampening=0,
       SGD                                                                                       direction and suppress oscillation; dampening: damping coefficient of the
                            weight_decay=0, nesterov=False)
                                                                                                 momentum, which is used to reduce the amplitude of the momentum update;
                                                                                                 weight_decay: weight decay coefficient, which is used for L2 regularization
                                                                                                 params: parameters to be optimized; lr: learning rate; betas: coefficient used to
                            torch.optim.Adam(params, lr=0.001, betas=(0.9, 0.999), eps=1e-08,
       Adam                                                                                      calculate the running average of gradients and gradient squares; weight_decay:
                            weight_decay=0, amsgrad=False)
                                                                                                 weight decay coefficient
                                                                                                 params: parameters to be optimized; lr: learning rate; lr_decay: learning rate
                            torch.optim.Adagrad(params, lr=0.01, lr_decay=0, weight_decay=0,
      AdaGrad                                                                                    decay; weight_decay: weight decay coefficient; initial_accumulator_value:
                            initial_accumulator_value=0, eps=1e-10)
                                                                                                 initial value of the accumulator
                                                                                                 params: parameters to be optimized; lr: learning rate; betas: coefficient used to
                                                                                                 calculate the running average of gradients and gradient squares; eps: item
                            torch.optim.AdamW(params, lr=0.001, betas=(0.9, 0.999), eps=1e-08,
      AdamW                                                                                      added to the denominator to improve the stability of value calculation;
                            weight_decay=0.01, amsgrad=False)
                                                                                                 weight_decay: weight decay coefficient; amsgrad: indicates whether to use the
                                                                                                 AMSGrad variant
                                                                                                 params: parameters to be optimized; lr: learning rate; alpha: coefficient of the
                            torch.optim.RMSprop(params, lr=0.001, alpha=0.99, eps=1e-08,         smoothing term; weight_decay: weight decay coefficient; momentum:
      RMSProp
                            weight_decay=0, momentum=0, centered=False)                          momentum factor; centered: indicates whether to calculate the centralized
                                                                                                 RMSprop




 48   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Adding Loss Functions and Optimizers for Training


                        # Instantiate a model structure.
                        model = MLP()
                        # Create a loss function.
                        criterion = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
                        # Create an optimizer.
                        optimizer = optim.SGD(model.parameters(), lr=0.01,momentum=0.9)
                        # Input data into the model.
                        output = model(trainset)
                        # Calculate the loss.
                        loss = criterion(output, target)
                        loss.backward()
                        optimizer.step()




 49   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1. AI Framework

      2. Basics of AI Development Frameworks

      3. PyTorch
                   Basic Modules
              ◼     Implementation of the LeNet Network Structure

      4. AI Application Development Process




50   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Building a Complete Neural Network (1)
                                                                              import torch
⚫    Use PyTorch to build a complete network LeNet                            import torch.nn as nn
     and use MNIST for training.                                              import torch.optim as optim
                                                                              import torchvision
              Build a LeNet network.                                         import torchvision.transforms as transforms

                  ◼    It has two convolutional layers. The first one uses    # Define the LeNet network structure.
                                                                              class LeNet(nn.Module):
                       six 5x5 convolution kernels with a stride of 1 and a
                                                                               def __init__(self):
                       padding of 2, and outputs six feature maps. The             super(LeNet, self).__init__()
                       second one uses 16 5x5 convolution kernels with a           # Define a two-dimensional convolutional layer.
                                                                                   self.conv1 = nn.Conv2d(1, 6, kernel_size=5, stride=1, padding=2)
                       stride of 1 and no padding, and outputs 16 feature          self.conv2 = nn.Conv2d(6, 16, kernel_size=5, stride=1)
                       maps.                                                       # Define the fully connected layer.
                                                                                   self.fc1 = nn.Linear(16*5*5, 120)
                  ◼    The average pooling layer is used to reduce the             self.fc2 = nn.Linear(120, 84)
                       dimensions of the feature maps.                             self.fc3 = nn.Linear(84, 10)
                                                                                   # Define the pooling layer.
                  ◼    ReLU is used after the convolutional layers, and            self.pool = nn.AvgPool2d(kernel_size=2, stride=2)
                       sigmoid or softmax (at the output layer) is used            # Activation function
                                                                                   self.relu = nn.ReLU()
                       after the fully connected layer.                            self.sigmoid = nn.Sigmoid()



    51       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Building a Complete Neural Network (2)
 Conv1 (the first convolutional layer)
   | - - Six 5 x 5 convolution kernels with a stride of 1
   | - - Output feature maps: 28 x 28 x 6
                                                                         Define the LeNet forward computation process.
 Pool
                                                                         # Define the LeNet network structure.
   | - - 2 x 2 pooling window, with a stride of 2
                                                                         class LeNet(nn.Module):
   | - - Output feature maps: 14 x 14 x 6
                                                                            def __init__(self):
 Conv2 (the second convolutional layer)
                                                                              ...
   | - - 16 5 x 5 convolution kernels, with a stride of 1
   | - - Output feature maps: 10 x 10 x 16
                                                                           def forward(self, x):
 Pool
                                                                             x = self.conv1(x)
   | - - 2 x 2 pooling window, with a stride of 2
                                                                             x = self.relu(x)
   | - - Output feature maps: 5 x 5 x 16
                                                                             x = self.pool(x)
 Conv3 (the third convolutional layer, which can be considered a fully
                                                                             x = self.conv2(x)
 connected layer)
                                                                             x = self.sigmoid(x)
   | - - 120 5 x 5 convolution kernels, with a stride of 1
                                                                             x = self.pool(x)
   | - - Output feature maps: 1 x 1 x 120 (full connection)
                                                                             x = x.view(-1, 16*5*5)
 FC1 (the first fully connected layer)
                                                                             x = self.fc1(x)
   | - - Input: 120 neurons
                                                                             x = self.relu(x)
   | - - Output: 84 neurons
                                                                             x = self.fc2(x)
 FC2 (the second fully connected layer/output layer)
                                                                             x = self.relu(x)
   | - - Input: 84 neurons
                                                                             x = self.fc3(x)
   | - - Output: 10 neurons (corresponding to 10 numerical
                                                                             return x
 categories)
 OUTPUT (output layer)
 52   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Building a Complete Neural Network (3)
⚫    Define the dataset with data from the open-source dataset MNIST.
⚫    Define the data pre-processing mode using transforms.Compose. Then, use the transform
     parameter to apply it to the dataset.
                                 # Data preprocessing
                                 transform = transforms.Compose([
                                    transforms.ToTensor(),
                                    transforms.Normalize((0.1307,), (0.3081,))
                                 ])

                                 # Load the MNIST dataset.
                                 trainset = torchvision.datasets.MNIST(root='./data', train=True, download=True,
                                 transform=transform)
                                 trainloader = torch.utils.data.DataLoader(trainset, batch_size=64, shuffle=True)

                                 testset = torchvision.datasets.MNIST(root='./data', train=False, download=True,
                                 transform=transform)
                                 testloader = torch.utils.data.DataLoader(testset, batch_size=1000, shuffle=False)


    53   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Building a Complete Neural Network (4)
                                                                              # Initialize the network, loss function, and optimizer.
⚫    Initialize the network, loss function, net = LeNet()
                                                                              criterion = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
     and optimizer.                                                           optimizer = optim.SGD(net.parameters(), lr=0.01, momentum=0.9)
                                                                              # Train the network.
                                                                              for epoch in range(10): # Train 10 epochs.
⚫    Use the for loop for training.                                              running_loss = 0.0
                                                                                 for i, data in enumerate(trainloader, 0):
              Conduct a test after the training is                                inputs, labels = data

               complete. The testing process is not                               optimizer.zero_grad()
                                                                                  outputs = net(inputs)
               elaborated here.                                                   loss = criterion(outputs, labels)
                                                                                  loss.backward()
                                                                                  optimizer.step()

                                                                                  running_loss += loss.item()
                                                                                  if i % 100 == 99: # Print the loss every 100 batches.
                                                                                      print(f'[Epoch {epoch+1}, Batch {i+1}] loss: {running_loss/100:.3f}')
                                                                                      running_loss = 0.0


    54       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Building a Complete Neural Network (5)
⚫    Save the trained model.
              In PyTorch, saving and loading a model involves two main parts: the model's state dictionary and
               architecture. The model's state dictionary contains model parameters (such as weights and biases),
               and the model architecture defines the model's hierarchy.


         # Save the model parameters.                                         # Save the entire model.
         torch.save(net.state_dict(), 'lenet_mnist.pth')                      torch.save(net, 'lenet_mnist.pth')

         # Re-instantiate the model as a model object when                    # Load the model.
         loading the model.                                                   net = torch.load('lenet_mnist.pth')
         net = LeNet()                                                        model.eval () # Switch to the eval mode if inference is
         net.load_state_dict(torch.load('lenet_mnist.pth'))                   required.
         net.eval () # Switch to the eval mode if inference is
         required.



    55       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1. AI Framework

      2. Basics of AI Development Frameworks

      3. PyTorch

      4. AI Application Development Process




56   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
AI Application Development Process



            Requirement
              analysis




              • Framework                                                                   • Hyper-parameter              •Model training
                installation                        Data     • Data collection   Network                         Model                       Application • Model deployment
  Environment                                                                                 definition                   •Model saving
              • Cloud                            preparation • Data pre-         building                       training                     deployment • Model prediction
     setup                                                     processing                   • Model structure              •Model testing
                environment use                                                               building




 57   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
ResNet-50 Application for Image Classification
⚫    Image classification is the most basic computer vision application and falls into the supervised
     learning category. For example, the application should determine the type of a given image,
     such as a cat, a dog, an airplane, or a car. Here we introduce how the application uses the
     ResNet-50 network to classify flowers in a flower dataset.

                                                                          Which flowers are these?




    58   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Environment Setup
⚫    Choose a proper environment (Python 3 in this example), obtain the command, and install it
     according to the guide.
              The following uses PyTorch as an example.




                                                                              https://PyTorch.org/get-started/locally/


    59       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Cloud Environment Preparation (Optional)
  ⚫    If no development environment is available, use ModelArts for development, model training, or
       deployment.
                ModelArts helps users quickly create and deploy models and manage the entire AI workflow.




      60       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Compared with a local environment, cloud environment provides plenty of computing
  power and storage space, making it a good choice for development.
Data Preparation
⚫    The flower image dataset is used as the training data. It is an open-source dataset and contains
     a total of 3670 images of five flower types: daisies (633 images), dandelions (898 images), roses
     (641 images), sunflowers (699 images), and tulips (799 images). The images are stored in five
     folders. The file structure consists of two parts, flower_photos_train and flower_photos_test.




                    File structure
    61   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Data Pre-processing
  ⚫    To improve the model's accuracy and ensure the generalization capability, you need to perform data
       augmentation and standardization before using the data to train the model.
  ⚫    Load and process the dataset, including:
                Reading the dataset
                Defining parameters required for data augmentation and processing
                Generating data augmentation operations according to the parameters
                Processing the generated dataset




      62       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• This application uses open-source datasets, so they do not need to be processed. If
  collected service data is used, you need to clean and sort the data.
Introduction to ResNet
⚫    Kaiming He from Microsoft Labs proposed ResNet50 in 2015 and won the first place in the ILSVRC 2015
     image classification competition.
⚫    The Residual Network is a ResNet highlight. It effectively mitigates degradation and enables deeper
     network structure design.




    63   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Model Training
⚫    Start model training after pre-processing the data and building the network model.
⚫    There are two ways to train a model:
              Start training from scratch based on the dataset (for PyTorch experiments).
              Fine-tune the dataset on a trained model.
                  ◼    Pre-trained model: ResNet model file trained on the ImageNet dataset.
                  ◼    Modify the last-layer parameters of the pre-trained model. (The pre-trained model is the 1001 classification task trained on
                       the ImageNet dataset, and the task is the 5 classification task for implementing the flowers dataset.)
                  ◼    Perform training based on the training set.

⚫    Parameter tuning: You can adjust different hyper-parameter combinations during training.
⚫    For details about the code, see the lab guide.


    64       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Model Loading and Prediction
⚫    Test the test data based on the trained model weight.
              After PyTorch training is complete, perform the inference test (torch.no_grad) when gradient
               calculation is disabled.
                  ◼    In the case of inference after deployment, you need to enable the eval mode (model.eval ()).

              Load the weight file and perform the prediction.
                  ◼    To load the model weight, you need to create the model's instance first.




    65       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Model Deployment
⚫    The figure on the right shows the
     simplified model training and inference                                                            Prediction
     process. Note that model inference does                                                              result
                                                                          Data         Model
     not require updating the model weight
     parameters. As such, the hardware                                                 Model training
     requirements are lower than those for                                                               Correct
     training.                                                                                            result
                                                                                       Model training
⚫    Models are usually deployed on dedicated
     inference servers. After optimization, such
     as model compression, models can also be
     deployed on devices such as mobile                                                                 Prediction
                                                                          Data         Model
                                                                                       Modelinference
     phones and cameras.                                                                                  result

                                                                                 Model inference


    66   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Model Compression
  ⚫    Increasing the number of model parameters has the following impact on the model.
                Inference performance
                    ◼    When the hardware memory access bandwidth is limited, the data transfer overhead increases with the
                         increased weight.
                    ◼    When there is not enough video RAM capacity, the model can only be deployed on the CPU, lowering the
                         inference performance.
                Deployment cost
                    ◼    A larger weight requires more storage capacity, computing resource overhead, and video RAM capacity. As
                         such, more devices are required for model deployment.
  ⚫    Currently, devices with large video RAM and high memory access bandwidth are expensive. As
       such, model compression is essential for deploying and promoting AI applications on consumer
       devices.

      67       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• As the batch size and sequence length increase, the KV cache also increases, causing great
  pressure on memory access.
Model Compression Method - Model Pruning
Pruning is an important model compression technology. The basic idea is to remove less
important weights and branches from a model and sparse the network structure to obtain a
model with fewer parameters. However, pruning may also cause model performance
deterioration. As such, you must find a balance between model size and performance. Neuron
connections in a neural network are mathematically represented as a weight matrix. This means
that pruning changes some elements in the weight matrix to zero elements. The following figure
shows the pruning process. The purpose is to remove less important synapses or neurons.




 68   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Model Compression Method - Knowledge Distillation
⚫    Knowledge distillation is a model compression technology based on transfer learning.
              A large complex network usually provides good performance, but also contains a lot of redundant
               information, which increases the computational complexity and resource consumption. Distilling
               extracts useful information from a complex network and migrates it to a smaller network. After
               learning, the small network can deliver similar performance to the large complex network while
               requiring fewer computing resources. The complex network can be seen as a teacher, and the small
               network as a student.




    69       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Common Deployment Tool
⚫    Llama.cpp
              Implemented with C++ code; helps implement LLM inference with minimal setup and superb performance on
               various hardware devices (on-premises and on the cloud) without the need for an AI framework.




    70       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Summary

      ⚫     This section describes AI development frameworks, including the basics of common
            AI frameworks, and PyTorch framework. It also touches on the process of developing
            AI applications.




71   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
        Quiz

         1.       (Multiple-choice question) Which of the following hardware devices can be used for PyTorch
                  training?
                 A. CPU

                 B. GPU

                 C. TensorFlow

                 D. CUDA




   72   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Answer: AB
     Recommendations

      ⚫     https://pytorch.org/




73   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Thank you.   把数字世界带入每个人、每个家庭、
             每个组织，构建万物互联的智能世界。
             Bring digital to every person, home, and
             organization for a fully connected,
             intelligent world.

             Copyright© 2025 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
             All Rights Reserved.

             The information in this document may contain predictive statements
             including, without limitation, statements regarding the future financial
             and operating results, future product portfolio, new technology, etc.
             There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and
             developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the
             predictive statements. Therefore, such information is provided for
             reference purpose only and constitutes neither an offer nor an
             acceptance. Huawei may change the information at any time without
             notice.
AI Business Process Overview
    Foreword

     ⚫     This chapter describes the AI business construction process, how to train a large
           model (the entire training and fine-tuning process), and how to efficiently use a large
           model.




2   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
    Objectives

     ⚫      Upon completion of this course, you will be able to:
                  Understand the overall data development process o the AI business.
                  Understand the overall process of foundation model training.
                  Understand how to efficiently use large models




3   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
    Contents

     1. AI Business Process

     2. Large Model Business Process

     3. Use of Large Models and Prompt Engineering




4   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 AI Business Development Process



                                                                                                               Model
  Business requirements                                                                        Data
                                                                         Data collection                   selection and
                                                                                           preprocessing
                                                                                                               design




                                                                            Model             Model
                                                                                                           Model training
                                                                          deployment        evaluation




    5   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• https://support.huaweicloud.com/function-modelarts/index.html#
Requirement Analysis


                                                                      ⚫   What is the purpose?




                                                                      ⚫   What are the problems to be solved?




 6   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Recommendation Algorithm Field




    7   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• The recommendation system algorithms include collaborative filtering, content-based
  recommendation, knowledge-based recommendation, and hybrid recommendation.

• E-commerce product recommendation: product recommendation on AI algorithms.

• Personalized news push: news content push based on user interest. News reading habits
  and user profiles are crucial. Common methods include content-based recommendations,
  collaborative filtering, and deep learning sequence models.

• Video and music content recommendation: video recommendation systems on platforms
  such as YouTube and iQIYI. Video metadata and content features are considered along with
  user behavior data. The algorithms include deep learning embedding models and multi-
  modal fusion models, such as YouTube DNN and DeepFM.
  Computer Vision (CV)




    8   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Security

• Target recognition, including identity authentication, social media filtering, and security
  management. Data sets such as Labeled Faces in the Wild (LFW) and MS-Celeb-1M are
  used. Algorithms include convolutional neural network (CNN), FaceNet, and ArcFace.

• image recognition and classification, including object recognition and medical image
  analysis. Data sets such as ImageNet, Common Objects in Context (COCO), and ChestX-
  ray14 are used to train and test models. Deep learning frameworks such as ResNet, VGG,
  and Inception series models are used.

• Autonomous driving, including road sign recognition, pedestrian detection, and obstacle
  avoidance. KITTI, Cityscapes, and Waymo Open Dataset are popular for autonomous
  driving. These datasets use object detection methods like YOLO, SSD, and Faster R-CNN.
  They also use 3D sensing methods like PointNet and RangeNet++, which work with lidar
  data.

• Image generation
  Natural Language Processing (NLP)
         Conversational bot

                                                                         Sentiment analysis




                                                                          Machine translation




   Speech synthesis

    9   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Chatbot, including customer service assistant and smart speaker. The training dataset may
  contain many dialog records and encyclopedia entries. Common algorithms are the
  sequence-to-sequence (Seq2Seq) model, Transformer architectures like BERT and GPT, and
  reinforcement learning methods.

• Sentiment analysis, including analysis of the sentiment tendency of user comments and
  social media posts. The IMDb movie review dataset and Twitter sentiment analysis dataset
  are commonly used benchmark datasets. Common algorithms include the bag of words
  (BOW) model, TF-IDF, and deep learning models such as TextCNN, LSTM, and bidirectional
  LSTM.

• Machine translation, that is, real-time translation between different languages. The
  Workshop on Machine Translation (WMT) provides multiple language pair datasets for
  training translation models. Google's transformer model and its variants, like Transformer-
  XL and BERT-based architectures, are the mainstream algorithms in this field.

• Speech recognition and generation, including converting speech into text or text into
  speech. They are the basis for voice assistants and automatic speech translation systems.
Data Preparation (1)
⚫    Data collection
              Recommendation system: Collect users' historical behavior data, which may include users' purchase
               history, browsing records, and rating data. Public datasets can be used, for example, the MovieLens
               movie rating dataset.
              CV: Obtain diversified image or video data in related fields to cover various objects, scenarios, and
               conditions that the model should recognize. Consider using public datasets like ImageNet, COCO, or
               PASCAL VOC as the starting point.
              NLP: Use crawlers to obtain related text from the Internet, or obtain text from public datasets, books,
               news, and social media platforms. In addition, questionnaires are also an effective way to collect
               specific data.


    10       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Data Preparation (2)
⚫    Data cleansing
              This process removes incorrect and unnecessary information, such as duplicate images, irrelevant
               images, duplicate text items, spelling errors, and user data that is duplicated or abnormal.

⚫    (Optional) Feature engineering
              Extraction of useful features from raw data might be needed based on the requirements of the
               recommendation system. Such features include user personal information, object attributes, and user
               behaviors. The purpose of feature engineering is to create features that can help the model better
               understand data, improving recommendation accuracy.
              Currently, CV and NLP do not require this operation.



    11       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Data Preparation (3)
⚫    Data labeling:
              For supervised learning tasks, you need to label each data item with the correct label. This can be performed manually
               or using automated tools. The quality and accuracy of labeling are crucial to the training effect of the model.
⚫    Dataset splitting:
              Split the cleansed and labeled data into training, validation, and test sets. The training set is used to train the model,
               the validation set is used to adjust model parameters and select the best model, and the test set is used to evaluate the
               model performance.
⚫    Preprocessing:
              Preprocess the data, such as normalization and encoding, to make it easier for the model to process.
⚫    Data analysis and evaluation:
              After creating a dataset, perform thorough data analysis to ensure its quality, diversity, and balance. In addition, you
               need to evaluate whether the dataset meets the expected objectives and prepare to support model training.



    12       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Model Selection and Design
⚫    Select a proper deep learning model architecture based on the task type and data characteristics. For
     example:
              Image recognition task: CNN, such as VGG, ResNet, and YOLO
              Text processing task: recurrent neural network (RNN), long short term memory (LSTM), gated recurrent unit (GRU), and
               Transformer (BERT and GPT)
              Deep neural network-based recommendation algorithm and attention mechanism-based recommendation algorithm
⚫    Design the model hierarchy, including the input layer, hidden layer (convolutional layer, recurrent layer,
     self-attention layer, and so on), output layer, and auxiliary layers such as the potential pooling layer and
     normalization layer.
⚫    Hyperparameter selection:
              Determine the hyperparameters of the model, such as the learning rate, batch size, regularization strength, number of
               layers, number of nodes, and dropout ratio.



    13       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Model Training
⚫    Forward propagation: Calculates the loss function, that is, the difference between the prediction and the
     actual label.
⚫    Backward propagation: Optimizes the parameters in the model based on the loss function, so that the
     next prediction is as close as possible to the actual value.
                                                                                      Forward propagation


                                𝑊1                       Linear Combination          Activation     𝑊2         Linear Combination       Activation

                                                          𝑧2 = 𝑊1 𝑋                                            𝑧3 = 𝑊2 𝑎2                                     1
                                                                                   𝑎2 = 𝑔1(𝑧2 )                                      𝑎3 = 𝑔2(𝑧3)     𝐶(𝑊) =     (𝑦 − 𝑎3 )2
                                                                                                    𝜕𝑧                                                        2
                                                                                                   (𝜕𝑊 )
                                                                                                      2

                                       𝜕𝑧                                 𝜕𝑎                          𝜕𝑧                     𝜕𝑎                      𝜕𝐶(𝑊)
                                     (𝜕𝑊2 )                               ( 𝜕𝑧2)                     (𝜕𝑎3 )                 ( 𝜕𝑧3)                   ( 𝜕𝑎 )
                                            1                                2                             2                    3                       3


                                                                                     Backward propagation
    14   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Model Evaluation (1)
⚫    Classification task evaluation metrics
              Accuracy: It is one of the most basic evaluation metrics. It measures the ratio of the number of samples that are
               correctly predicted by the model to the total number of samples.
              Precision: In a classification task, precision is the proportion of true positive predictions among all positive
               predictions made by the model.
              Recall: For binary classification or multi-class classification, precision is the proportion of positive samples
               predicted by the model, reflecting the model's ability to predict positive samples.
              F1-Score: The F1-Score is the harmonic mean of precision and recall. It combines precision and recall. A higher
               F1 value indicates that the model achieves a better balance between precision and recall.




    15       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Model Evaluation (2)
⚫    Regression task evaluation metrics
              Mean squared error (MSE): It is the average of the squared differences between the predicted value
               and the actual value. It is used to measure the prediction error.
              Root mean squared error (RMSE): It is the square root of MSE. The unit is the same as that of the
               original observation value, which more intuitively reflects the difference between the predicted value
               and the actual value.
              Mean absolute error (MAE): It is the average of the absolute differences between the predicted value
               and the actual value. Compared with MSE, MAE is more robust to outliers.




    16       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Model Deployment
  ⚫    Model conversion to the middleware format
  ⚫    Quantization: FP32 to FP16 and INT8
  ⚫    Model encapsulation: Encapsulate the model as an API for rollout



                                                                                                   Model packaging and
                                        Model                               Model quantization &
                                                                                                   encapsulation into an
                                      conversion                               compression
                                                                                                           API




      17   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• The trained model file format in PyTorch is PTH, while ONNX is an exchange format
  developed by AI companies.
     Contents

      1. AI Business Process

      2. Large Model Business Process
              ▫ Pre-training

              ▫ Model Fine-tuning

              ▫ RHLF

              ▫ Model Evaluation

      3. Use of Large Models and Prompt Engineering


18   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Large Model Business Development Process

  Business requirements
                                                                                                                  Large model
                                                                          Data collection   Data preprocessing   selection and
                                                                                                                     design




                                                                                            Large model fine-
                                                                              Model                              Large model
                                                                                              tuning and AI
                                                                            evaluation                           pre-training
                                                                                                alignment




                                                                             Model
                                                                           deployment


    19   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• https://support.huaweicloud.com/intl/en-us/function-modelarts/index.html
Large Models Are More Complex with More Parameters
⚫    Large models often have billions or even more parameters and can be hundreds of gigabytes or larger.
              Large models based on Transformer use the self-attention mechanism, which brings a large number of
               parameters. The self-attention mechanism allows the model to independently consider each position in the
               input sequence and flexibly capture long-distance dependencies, which further increases the demand for model
               parameters.
              For complex, high-dimensional data distribution, more parameters help the model fit better, reduce bias, and
               improve training performance. In particular, when processing tasks such as natural language, the model needs
               enough capacity to understand and generate various sentence structures and meanings, so as to better cope
               with the richness and complexity of language.
⚫    For example, it is estimated based on documentation that GPT-3 has about 175 billion parameters.
     LLaMA2 by Meta AI comes in three sizes: 7 billion (7B), 13 billion (13B), and 70 billion (70B) parameters.




    20       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Large Models Require a Large Data Volume
  ⚫    Large models have many more parameters than traditional ones, so they need bigger training datasets.
       Learning from more data helps these models improve.
  ⚫    The following table shows the training data distribution of several typical large models.

                      Data                                           GPT3-175B                    LLaMA-65B                     GLM-130B
                                                                                                CommonCrawl
                                                                                                      C4
                                                                    CommonCrawl                                                    Pile,
                                                                                                    Github
         Data                   Data                                 Books1 and 2                                             Chinese Wudao,
      description              source                                 WebText2
                                                                                                  Wikipedia
                                                                                                                                  Corpora
                                                                      Wikipedia                     Books
                                                                                                                                     ...
                                                                                                     ArXiv
                                                                                                StackExchange

         Data                                                                                Filtering
      processing
                                                                                           Deduplication

           Training             Ratio                       60%, 22%, 8%, 8%, and 3%   67%, 15%, 4.5%, 4.5%, 2.5%, and 2.0%        ......
             data             Tokens                                      300B                           1.4T                      400B



      21      Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Explain that datasets need to be cleansed to remove errors and duplicates. The original
  GPT3 data was 45 TB, but only 570 GB remains after filtering. The ratio of used data varies
  according to the data quality.
Diversity of Large Model Training Data
⚫    Training large models needs large-scale, high-quality, and multimodal datasets. This data typically needs
     to be collected from various domains and sources, and can be texts, images, audio, and videos.




                     E2E model development pipeline
                     An E2E tool chain for model development, training, and
                     inference enables seamless collaboration of DataOps,     Texts
                     MLOps, and DevOps, improving development efficiency
                     by 50%.




    22   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Large Models Have Better Capabilities
⚫    Better learning capability: Large models have more parameters and a more complex structure,
     which allows them to fit data better and learn more effectively. This allows them to process
     bigger datasets and find deeper patterns, leading to better performance on many tasks.
⚫    Better generalization capability: Large models generalize better, performing well on new data.
     This makes them adaptable for real-world uses and less likely to overfit.
⚫    Stronger multi-task processing capability: Large models can handle multiple tasks at once,
     eliminating the need for separate models for each task. This improves flexibility and efficiency
     and lowers maintenance costs.




    23   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  LLM Training Process
                        Pretraining                                 Supervised Finetuning      Reward Modeling     Reinforcement Learning
                    > 1 trillion tokens                                       10K-100K             100K-1M              10K–100K


                             Text                                         Demonstration data
                                                                                               Comparison data           Prompts
                     e.g. internet data                                   (prompt, response)




                                                                                                                      Reinforcement
                         Language                                             Language            Classification
                                                                                                                          Learning
                         modeling                                             modeling               Prompt
                                                                                                                    generate responses
                      Predict the next                                     Predict the next    winning_response,
                                                                                                                     that maximize the
                           token                                                token           losing_response)
                                                                                                                           reward




                      Pretrained LLM                                          SFT model         Reward model           Final model




    24   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• During pre-training, we use huge amounts of data from sources like web pages, Wikipedia,
  books, GitHub, papers, and Q&A sites. This data contains hundreds of billions to trillions of
  words. We train the model using a supercomputer with thousands of powerful GPUs and
  fast networks. It takes dozens of days to complete this training and build the basic language
  model (base model). The Basic Model develops the capability to model long texts, enabling
  the model to generate language. Based on the input prompt, the model can produce text
  completions.
Pre-training Datasets
⚫    Data sources of large models are diverse, mainly including the following:
              Public data on the Internet: The Internet holds vast amounts of public data, such as texts, images, and videos.
               Developers can crawl these data on the Internet to build their datasets. Such data may come from sources like
               news sites, social media, blogs, and forums.
              Professional databases and data released by institutions: Many professional institutions, databases, and
               academic organizations release organized and processed datasets. These datasets usually have high quality and
               reliability. Large models can use these data for training to improve their performance and accuracy.
              Internal enterprise data: For some customized large models, enterprises may use their internal data to build
               datasets. Such data may include enterprise business data, user behavior data, and product data, helping model
               better adapt to the actual needs of enterprises.
              User-generated content: With the popularity of social media and online platforms, user-generated content (such
               as comments, ratings, and feedback) has also become an important source of large model datasets. Such data
               reflects users' real needs and preferences, helping the model better understand and meet their needs.



    25       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Data Parallelism
⚫    Data parallelism: The training dataset needs to be split into N parts, each located onto a
     separate computing node. Each node keeps a full model copy and calculates gradients using its
     local data. All nodes send their gradients to node 0, which combines them and sends the final
     result back to the other nodes.




    26   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Tensor Parallelism
  ⚫    In tensor parallel training, we split a tensor into N blocks along one dimension. Each device
       holds 1/N of the tensor, keeping the computation accurate. This requires extra communication
       to ensure correct results.




      27   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Row-wise weight partitioning

           ▫ The number of computing units decides how parameters are split. Data also needs to
             be divided for matrix calculations.

• Column-wise weight partitioning

           ▫ The number of computing units decides how w is split. In this case, input data X does
             not need to be split.
Pipeline Parallelism
⚫    The following figure shows the pipeline parallelism. Assume that there are four NPUs. The parameters of the large
     model are divided into four parts by layer and placed on device 0, 1, 2, and 3 in sequence. For a minibatch of data,
     forward propagation is first performed on device 0 (corresponding to the gray block F0 in the figure). After the
     calculation is complete, the result of device 0 is sent to device 1 to continue forward propagation (corresponding to
     the yellow block F0 in the figure). After the forward propagation is complete on the last NPU, that is, device 3, the
     loss is calculated on device 3 and backward propagation is performed (corresponding to the purple block B0 in the
     figure). Backward propagation is performed until device 0 is complete. The optimizer parameters are updated on
     each card, and the model parameters are updated.




    28   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1. AI Business Process

      2. Large Model Business Process
              ▫ Pre-training

              ▫ Supervised Fine-tuning

              ▫ Reinforcement Learning

              ▫ Model Evaluation

      3. Use of Large Models and Prompt Engineering


29   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT)
⚫    SFT refers to pre-training a neural network model (the source model) on a source dataset. Then, a new
     neural network model (the target model) is created.
⚫    The target model copies all design elements and parameters from the source model, except for the
     output layer.
⚫    These parameters hold knowledge from the source dataset, which works well with the target dataset.
     The output layer from the source model is removed because it is closely tied to the source dataset's
     labels.
⚫    During fine-tuning, add an output layer whose output size equals the number of target dataset
     categories to the target model, and randomly initialize the model parameters of this layer. We train the
     target model from scratch up to the output layer. The other layer's parameters are fine-tuned using the
     source model's parameters.

    30   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Adapter Tuning
⚫    As computer hardware improves, pre-trained models have more parameters. Fine-tuning the whole model for
     downstream tasks is costly and time-consuming. Adapters help solve this problem. Adapter adds parameters for
     downstream tasks into each layer of the pre-trained model. During fine-tuning, only these task-specific parameters
     are trained, and the main model is frozen. This reduces the computing power costs.




                                                                          An adapter module is added to each layer or
                                                                          some layers of the pre-trained model.
                                                                          During fine-tuning, the pre-trained model's
                                                                          main part is frozen, and the adapter module
                                                                          learns the knowledge of the downstream
                                                                          task.




    31   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Prefix Tuning
⚫    In prefix tuning, a set of task-specific virtual tokens is added before the input as the prefix. During
     training, only these prefix token's parameters are updated, while the rest of the Transformer parameters
     stay fixed.




    32   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Prompt Tuning
⚫    This method is a simpler form of prefix tuning. It adds prompt tokens only to the input layer, removing
     the need for an MLP to handle training issues.
⚫    The pre-trained parameters stay fixed, and one or more embeddings are added for each task. These
     embeddings are then combined with the query and fed into the LLM, with only the embeddings being
     trained. The left figure shows full-parameter fine-tuning for a single task, while the right figure shows
     prompt tuning.




    33   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
LoRA: Low-Rank Adaptation of Large Language Models
⚫    LoRA's idea is simple. In the figure below, the pre-trained model's matrix parameters are frozen and
     replaced with matrices A and B. During downstream tasks, only A and B are updated.


                                                                          ⚫   A bypass is added next to the pre-trained language model
                                                                              (PLM) to reduce and then increase dimensions, mimicking the
                                                                              intrinsic rank.
                                                                          ⚫   During training, only the matrices for dimensionality reduction
                                                                              (A) and increasing (B) are updated;
                                                                          ⚫   The model's input and output sizes stay the same. At the end,
                                                                              the parameters of BA and the PLM are merged.
                                                                          ⚫   Matrix A starts with random Gaussian values, and matrix B
                                                                              starts as a zero matrix to keep the bypass matrix at zero
                                                                              initially.

    34   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1. AI Business Process

      2. Large Model Business Process
              ▫ Pre-training

              ▫ Supervised Fine-tuning

              ▫ RLHF

              ▫ Model Evaluation

      3. Use of Large Models and Prompt Engineering


35   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Alignment
  ⚫    Use data that humans prefer for training (SFT + RLHF):
                Authenticity: Is it false or misleading information?
                Harmlessness: Does it cause physical or mental harm to people or the environment?
                Usefulness: Does it address the user's task?


                                                                                 Supervised instruction fine-     Instruction fine-tuning for
                                                                                           tuning                   reinforcement learning

                                                                                 Apologize to them.             Argue with them.            -5

  What to do when your                                                           Go walking with them.          Reason with them.           -1
  friend is upset?
                                                                           LLM
                                                                                                                Admit the mistake
                                                                                 Remind them to take care.
                                                                                                                quickly.
                                                                                                                                            +3
                                                                                                                         ...
      36       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Why use instruction tuning: Because GPT's outputs can be random, inaccurate,
  uninteresting, or harmful due to its training on large datasets.

• Why use reinforcement learning: 1. Labeling data is expensive. 2. Reinforcement learning
  shows if a model works well but doesn't explains how to improve it. Reinforcement learning
  allows models to explore more freely, overcoming the limits of supervised learning.
  RLHF
  ⚫    Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) is a method that leverages human
       feedback to refine a model, enabling effective self-learning.
  ⚫    By integrating human feedback into the reward function, RLHF ensures that large models can
       perform tasks more aligned with human targets, aspirations, and needs.




      37   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• RLHF is a standard technology used to make sure LLMs create real, harmless, and helpful
  content. However, human communication is a personal and creative act, and the value of
  LLM output largely depends on human values and preferences. Different models are
  trained in various ways and use different human feedback, leading to varied results. How
  well each model matches human values depends on its creator.
  Reward Model (RM) Training
  ⚫    Randomly select questions from the dataset. Use mode                 Selecting questions
                                                                            from the question              What is a banana?
       generated after the supervised instruction fine-tuning (SFT          library

       model), and generate multiple responses for each question.                                 A: A sour fruit...   B: A piece of
                                                                                                                       decoration...
                                                                            Repetitively
       Labeling personnel rank the responses based on a thorough            generate answers
                                                                                                   C. Something
                                                                            for 4 times                                D: Bananas are
       evaluation. This process is like getting guidance from a                                    monkeys love
                                                                                                                          yellow...
                                                                                                      to eat...
       mentor or teacher.
  ⚫    Then, use the ranking results to train the reward model.
       Multiple ranking results are paired to form multiple training        Manual sorting

       data pairs.
  ⚫    The RM model takes an input and gives a score to rate the
       response's quality. For each training pair, it adjusts the           Use the sorting
                                                                            result to train the
       parameters to make sure high-quality responses get higher            reward model
       scores than low-quality ones.

      38   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Reward model training

• Data preparation: First, prepare a batch of data for training the reward model. This data
  should include text samples and their human evaluation scores. You can get these scores
  from crowdsourcing platforms or expert reviews, as they reflect how people perceive text
  quality.

• Model construction: Next, build a neural network as the reward model. You can use a
  simple multilayer perceptron (MLP) or a more complex model like the Transformer. The key
  is to ensure the model can effectively capture human evaluation criteria.

• Training process: Use the prepared data to train the reward model. The training target is to
  minimize the error between the model's predicted scores and the actual human evaluation
  scores. You can achieve this with optimization methods like gradient descent.

• Validation and tuning: Validate the model during training to ensure it can accurately
  predict human evaluations on new data. If the model performs poorly, we may need to
  adjust its structure or training method.
Reinforcement Learning
⚫    Reinforcement learning considers the overall impact more than supervised learning.
              Supervised learning gives feedback on individual tokens to help the model give the right answer. Reinforcement
               learning gives feedback on the whole output instead of individual tokens. Reinforcement learning works better
               for large language models due to the difference in feedback granularity.
⚫    Reinforcement learning is more effective at addressing hallucination issues.
              In supervised learning, the model gives a result even if it doesn't know the answer. In reinforcement learning,
               the model avoids low-scoring answers by using reward scores.
⚫    Reinforcement learning better handles reward accumulation issues in multi-round conversations.
              Building effective multi-round dialog interactions and determining if the final goal is met is hard with supervised
               learning. But using reinforcement learning, we can create a reward function that assesses the model's output
               based on the dialog's coherence and context.




    39       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
RLHF Training Procedure

      Fine-tune the pre-trained LLM on                                                                                      Use reinforcement learning, like
                                                                          Collect human-labeled datasets to
      specific topics or with instructions and                                                                              PPO, to fine-tune the LLM with this
                                                                          train a reward model.
      human example corpora.                                                                                                dataset and reward model.



                Step 1: supervised learning                                   Step 2: reward model                 Step 3: reinforcement
                                                                                                                          learning
           Manually develop the                                        Ask the trained model
                                                                                                              Ask random new
           training plan (which                                        same questions again.
                                                                                                              questions.
           questions to ask).                                          GPT generates
                                                                       multiple answers for
                                                                       each question.                         The trained model
           Professional labeling                                                                              gives answers.
           personnel give high-
           quality answers to
           these questions.
                                                                       Manually sort and                      Use the reward
                                                                       score the results.                     model to rank
           Professional labeling                                                                              and score the
           personnel use these                                                                                output answers
                                                                       Give back the results                  and repeatedly
           answers to refine
                                                                       again to generate a                    train the GPT
           GPT-3 and fine-tune                                         reward model.
           the model.                                                                                         model.




 40   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1. AI Business Process

      2. Large Model Business Process
              ▫ Pre-training

              ▫ Supervised Fine-tuning

              ▫ RLHF

              ▫ Model Evaluation

      3. Use of Large Models and Prompt Engineering


41   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Why Do We Need Evaluation for Large Models
  ⚫    A large model is a highly capable function f, which is not fundamentally different from previous machine
       learning models. So why do we need evaluation for large models? What are the differences between
       evaluation for large models and previous evaluation for machine learning models?
  ⚫    Research and evaluation help us better understand the strengths and weaknesses of large models.
                Most studies show these models match or exceed human performance in many tasks. However, some studies
                 doubt if this success comes from memorizing the training data.
  ⚫    Research and evaluation can guide the improvement of collaboration between human and large models.
                Since people are the main users, understanding and evaluating model capabilities is crucial for enhancing
                 human-machine interaction designs.
  ⚫    Research and evaluation can better plan and coordinate the future development of large models and
       prevent unknown and potential risks.




      42       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• For example, when given only the LeetCode problem number, the model outputs the
  correct solution. This shows that the training data was contaminated.

• For example, our recent study, PromptBench. It is the first evaluation benchmark form
  prompt robustness in LLMs. We found that these models often struggle with interference
  and lack stability. This led us to improve the system's fault tolerance through better
  prompts.

• Large models keep evolving and becoming more powerful. Can we assess their abilities
  from an evolutionary viewpoint using well-designed and scientific methods? How can we
  predict potential risks in advance? These are important research topics.
Evaluation Dimensions
⚫    Large language models can handle many complex natural language tasks, unlike traditional algorithms.
     Therefore, model evaluation must be performed from multiple dimensions. The evaluation dimensions
     can be classified into the following three aspects:
              Knowledge and capability: Large language models have rich knowledge and can handle many tasks, including
               natural language processing (text classification and information extraction), knowledge Q&A (reading
               comprehension and open-domain Q&A), natural language generation (text summarization and text creation),
               logical reasoning, and code generation.
              Ethics and security: Models are trained based on the 3H principles: helpfulness, honesty, and harmlessness.
               Harmlessness ensures that the model's responses match human values.
              Vertical domains, mainly covering complex reasoning capability (such as knowledge reasoning and mathematical
               reasoning), environment interaction capability (for example, an agent generates actions based on language
               instructions for home tasks), and problem solving capability in specific domains (such as finance, law, and
               healthcare).


    43       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Evaluation System
⚫    GLUE and SuperGLUE test a model's natural language understanding. They cover tasks like text classification,
     inference, question answering, and sentiment analysis. These benchmarks simulate real-world language processing
     scenarios and set the standard for measuring a model's natural language understanding capabilities.
⚫    GSM8K and MMLU test 57 different disciplines, providing a comprehensive evaluation of the knowledge domain of
     large models. GSM8K evaluates math problem-solving skills. MMLU uses multiple-choice questions to evaluate a
     model's understanding and reasoning in many fields.
⚫    BLUE-bench focuses on the biomedical field and tests how well models perform in medical Q&A and related tasks.
⚫    Adversarial Robustness Benchmarks are used to test how well the model resists malicious inputs, evaluating its
     security.
⚫    LLM Ethics Benchmarks check if large models create content that breaks social ethics, like bias, toxicity, or
     dishonesty.




    44   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Common Evaluation Metrics
  ⚫    BLEU
                It is commonly used in machine translation tasks. It checks how many n-grams match between the translated
                 text and the reference text. More matches mean better translation quality. Unigrams are used to measure the
                 accuracy of word-level translation, while higher-order n-grams are used to evaluate the fluency of sentence-level
                 translation.
  ⚫    NIST
                It is an improvement on the BLEU method, introducing the concept of information volume for each n-gram,
                 giving more weight to less frequent but important words.
  ⚫    ROUGE
                Rouge is an improved version of BLEU that focuses on recall, not precision. It checks how many n-grams from the
                 reference translation appear in the output. Rouge-N and Rouge-L are scores are based on n-grams and the
                 longest common subsequence, respectively.

      45       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• https://3ms.huawei.com/km/blogs/details/14813656
Challenges in Large Model Evaluation (1)
⚫    Diverse foundation model capabilities make evaluation challenging
              It is challenging to make comprehensive and fair evaluations on diverse foundation model
               capabilities. For example, Stanford evaluates models across 42 scenario tasks in 7 dimensions,
               SuperCLUE defines 70 scenario tasks, C-Eval selects 52 scenario tasks, and AGIEval chooses 20
               standardized test tasks.

⚫    Lack of unified industry standards for large model evaluation
              Testing standards and methods lack industry-wide uniformity; different evaluation organizations have
               varying testing subjects, scopes, and results. Public dataset-based testing presents significant
               challenges: the availability of numerous public datasets increases selection complexity and workload,
               while it is also difficult to ensure that these datasets do not overlap with the model's training set.


    46       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Challenges in Large Model Evaluation (2)
⚫    Lack of evaluation standards for enterprise applications
              The industry lacks a standard way to evaluate enterprise apps. Different areas focus on different
               features. For example, customer service values instruction compliance and hallucination suppression,
               while R&D focuses on code generation.
              Open-source Internet data cannot be used to evaluate model performance in enterprise services.
              Professional testing platforms may leak enterprise data.
⚫    Rapid model updates, heavy manual evaluation workload, and repeated work
              Models update quickly. Manual evaluations are time-consuming, repetitive, and inconsistent.
              Professional evaluation needs a lot of data preparations. Expert labeling takes a lot of time and effort,
               making it costly. Also, defining tasks and ensuring coverage are challenges.



    47       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1. AI Business Process

      2. Large Model Business Process

      3. Use of Large Models and Prompt Engineering
              ▫ How to Use Large Models

              ▫ Prompt Engineering and Basic Methods

              ▫ Advanced Prompting Techniques




48   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  How to Better Use Large Models


                                                                                Use symbols to clearly distinguish different parts of the
                  Write clear and specific                                                              prompt.
                       instructions.                                                         Output structured prompts.
                                                                                               Provide a few examples.


                                                                          ...

                                                                                 Develop the steps required to complete the task.
                 Give the model time to
                          think.                                            Let the model propose a solution first. Then, compare and
                                                                                                     assess it.



    49   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Provide as clear and specific instructions as possible to express what you want the model to
  do. This will guide the model to create content as you expect and reduce the chance of
  getting irrelevant or wrong answers.

• Most large models have emergent capabilities, can solve relatively complex problems, and
  have a very broad knowledge coverage.

• They can understand and analyze natural language input from users and provide services
  and assistance in different fields and tasks.

• However, communicating with large models still requires some skills.
     Contents

      1. AI Business Process

      2. Large Model Business Process

      3. Use of Large Models and Prompt Engineering
              ▫ How to Use Large Models

              ▫ Prompt Engineering and Basic Methods

              ▫ Advanced Prompting Techniques




50   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Prompt Engineering
⚫    Prompt engineering involves refining prompt phrases using structured text to guide the LLM to
     produce desired outputs.
⚫    Researchers can use prompt engineering to improve the capabilities of LLMs in handling
     complex tasks, such as Q&A and arithmetic inference.
⚫    Developers can use prompt engineering to design and develop powerful engineering
     technologies to efficiently connect with LLMs or other ecosystem tools.
⚫    Prompt engineering is key for interacting and interconnecting with large language models and
     understanding what they can do. Users can improve LLM security through prompt engineering.
     They can also enhance LLM capabilities by using specialized knowledge and external tools.


    51   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Zero-Shot Prompting
⚫    Zero-shot prompting is a technique where the user does not provide demonstrations related to
     the task result, and directly prompts the language model to provide task-related answers.
⚫    Large language models are capable of zero-shot prompting, but their success depends on the
     complexity of the task and the scope of existing knowledge.



                 Q: <Question>?
                 A:




    52   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Example of Zero-Shot Prompting
  Prompt:               Certain substances in apples may cause allergies in consumers, leading to symptoms such as rashes and difficulty breathing; at the same time, excessive
                        fructose and dietary fiber in apples may cause digestive symptoms such as bloating and diarrhea.
                        Positive and negative evaluation:


  Output:                The description includes potential negative impacts of apples without directly mentioning any positive aspects of apples. The following is an analysis of
                         the positive and negative evaluations of the description:
                         1. Negative evaluation
                         •     "Certain substances in apples may cause allergies in consumers": This points out the potential health risks apples may pose to certain groups, which
                               is a clear negative evaluation.
                         •     "Leading to symptoms such as rashes and difficulty breathing": It lists the symptoms of allergic reactions in detail, further reinforcing the potential
                               negative health impacts of apples.
                         •     "Excessive fructose and dietary fiber may cause digestive symptoms such as bloating and diarrhea": This again emphasizes the potential side effects
                               of apple consumption, which is a negative evaluation of the potential adverse effects of apples.
                         In this description, no positive attributes of apples, such as nutritional value or health benefits, are mentioned, so overall it leans towards a negative
                         evaluation.
                         2. Positive evaluation: Although there is no direct positive evaluation in the description, it can be inferred that, since apples are widely recognized as a
                         healthy food, the mentioned allergens and digestive issues usually do not prevent most people from consuming apples. However, this positive
                         perspective is based on general knowledge rather than what is provided in the description itself.
                         In summary, the description focuses on the potential risks of apples without explicitly expressing any positive features, so it can be judged as a negative
                         evaluation. It should be noted that, to provide a comprehensive evaluation, the positive aspects such as the nutritional and health benefits of apples are
                         usually also needed to be considered.


    53   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• If only simple data judgment is required, the output is complex and contains a large amount
  of unnecessary information.

• Models of the GPT series are all autoregressive language models. This is to say that such
  models predict the next word based on the current input, and then combine the prediction
  result with the input as the model input to predict the next word. This process repeats
  cyclically.

• Researchers of GPT-3 found that large-scale training data generates an interesting
  emerging behavior called In-Context Learning (ICL). ICL does not require model parameter
  adjustment and can achieve excellent results with only a few examples of downstream
  tasks.

• The pre-trained GPT-3 model does not need to be retrained when migrated to a new task.
  You only need to provide a task description (optional), then provide several examples (task
  queries and corresponding answers, organized in pairs), and finally add the query to be
  answered by the model. After the preceding content is packaged as the model input, the
  model can correctly output the answer corresponding to the last query.
 Few-Shot Prompting
  ⚫    Although large language models demonstrate impressive zero-shot capabilities, they still perform poorly
       on more complex tasks when using zero-shot settings.
  ⚫    Few-shot prompting can be used as a technique to enable contextual learning, providing demonstrations
       in the prompt to guide the model to achieve better performance. Demonstrations are conditions for
       subsequent examples, and the model is expected to generate responses.
  ⚫    Few can be selected randomly.

                                                                            Q: <Question>?
                                                                            A: <Answer>
                                                                            Q: <Question>?
                                                                            A: <Answer>
                                                                            Q: <Question>?
                                                                            A: <Answer>
                                                                            Q: <Question>?
                                                                            A:

      54   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• One-shot                        few-shot
Example of Few-Shot Prompting
Prompt:                Certain substances in apples may cause allergies in consumers, leading to symptoms such as rashes and difficulty breathing; at
                       the same time, excessive fructose and dietary fiber in apples may cause digestive symptoms such as bloating and diarrhea.
                       Evaluation: Negative
                       Bananas are a very beneficial fruit for the human body.
                       Evaluation: Positive
                       Durian is sweet and delicious, with very high nutritional value.
                       Evaluation:




Output:
                     Positive




 55   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1. AI Business Process

      2. Large Model Business Process

      3. Use of Large Models and Prompt Engineering
              ▫ How to Use Large Models

              ▫ Prompt Engineering and Basic Methods

              ▫ Advanced Prompting Techniques




56   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Chain-of-Thoughts Prompting
⚫    Chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting enables complex reasoning by introducing intermediate reasoning
     steps. It expands a question step by step and retains the background information of previous questions
     in each answer. CoT makes a conversation content-rich and coherent.
⚫    CoT prompting mainly has the following two types:
              Few-shot-CoT
              Zero-shot-CoT
⚫    Feature
              Orderliness: CoT prompting requires that questions be broken down into a series of ordered steps. Each step is
               based on the previous step, forming a clear CoT.
              Relevance: There must be a close logical connection between each thought step to ensure the coherence and
               consistency of the entire thought process.
              Step-by-step inference: The model focuses only on the current question and related information in each step
               and approaches the final answer through step-by-step reasoning.
    57       Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Few-Shot-CoT
⚫    In this mode, the model is provided with a small number of examples, each of which includes a
     high-quality inference process (handwritten or model-generated).

              Prompt:                The sum of the odd numbers in this group is even: 4, 8, 9, 15, 12, 2, 1.
                                     A: Add all the odd numbers (9, 15, 1) to get 25. The answer is False.
                                     The sum of the odd numbers in this group is even: 17, 10, 19, 4, 8, 12, 24.
                                     A: Add all the odd numbers (17,19) to get 36. The answer is True.
                                     The sum of the odd numbers in this group is even: 16, 11, 14, 4, 8, 13, 24.
                                     A: Add all the odd numbers (11, 13) to get 24. The answer is True.
                                     The sum of the odd numbers in this group is an even number: 17, 9, 10, 12, 13, 4, 2.
                                     A: Add all the odd numbers (17, 9, 13) to get 39. The answer is False.
                                     The sum of odd numbers in this group of numbers is even: 15, 32, 5, 13, 82, 7, 1.
                                     A:


              Output:                Add all odd numbers (15, 5, 13, 7, 1) to get 41. The answer is False.


    58   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Zero-Shot-CoT
⚫    The zero-shot-CoT method adds the prompt "Let's think step by step" before each answer of
     the language model to guide the model to think step by step.




    59   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Advantages of Zero-Shot-CoT
⚫    Generalization: Zero-shot-CoT uses a single template and can work across multiple inference tasks without
     needing to design a specific prompt for each task, whereas few-shot prompts require a dedicated example for
     each task.
⚫    No manual example design: Zero-shot-CoT does not require manual design of multi-step inference examples,
     reducing the workload of prompt engineering, whereas few-shot prompts necessitate meticulous design of
     examples for each task.
⚫    Stronger zero-shot inference benchmark: Zero-shot-CoT serves as a stronger zero-shot inference benchmark,
     providing better performance for difficult multi-step inference tasks, while standard zero-shot prompts
     perform poorly.
⚫    Better scalability: As the model scale increases, the performance improvement of zero-shot-cot is more
     obvious, showing better scalability. Few-shot prompts are not very sensitive to the model scale.
⚫    Reduced bias: Zero-shot-CoT reduces the bias introduced by manually designed examples, making the
     research on language model bias more fair.


    60   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
       Quiz

        1.       (Multiple-answer question) The chain-of-thought (CoT) prompt implements complex
                 reasoning capabilities by introducing intermediate reasoning steps. Compared with few-
                 shot-CoT, what are the advantages of zero-shot-CoT?
                A. In most cases, the effect is better than that of few-shot-CoT.

                B. No need to manually design examples

                C. Better scalability

                D. High generalization




  61   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• BCD
     Summary

      ⚫     This chapter introduces the entire process of AI service and foundation model
            building, and describes how to use prompt engineering to efficiently use foundation
            models to obtain more accurate answers.




62   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Thank you.   把数字世界带入每个人、每个家庭、
             每个组织，构建万物互联的智能世界。
             Bring digital to every person, home, and
             organization for a fully connected,
             intelligent world.

             Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

             The information in this document may contain predictive
             statements including, without limitation, statements regarding
             the future financial and operating results, future product
             portfolio, new technology, etc. There are a number of factors that could
             cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those
             expressed or implied in the predictive statements. Therefore, such
             information is provided for reference purpose only and constitutes
             neither an offer nor an acceptance. Huawei may change the information
             at any time without notice.
Cutting-edge AI Applications
    Foreword

     ⚫     In a time of overwhelming technological advancement, artificial intelligence (AI) is an
           incredible force for change. From intelligent assistants to autonomous driving, and
           from weather forecasts to intelligent robots, AI is being applied almost pervasively,
           making it a new engine for social progress and development.




2   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
    Objectives

     ⚫      Upon the completion of this course, you will be able to understand:
                  AI applications in daily life
                  AI applications in cutting-edge fields




3   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
    Contents

     1. Voice Assistants

     2. Smart Homes

     3. Intelligent Vehicles

     4. Intelligent Recommendation

     5. Intelligent Robots

     6. AI4Science



4   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Ubiquitous AI
  ⚫       In this age of technology, AI has become indispensable to our lives. AI is bringing all kinds of
          novel conveniences to our lives, ranging from the voice assistants on our smartphones to the
          automatic management of smart homes, even reaching our healthcare, education, and travel.

                                                                             Voice assistant




                                    Smart home                                                 Efficient travel


      5     Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• https://consumer.huawei.com/en/emui/celia/
  Voice Assistant – Celia
  ⚫       Celia is a smart assistant. Powered by foundation models, Celia is capable of providing solutions
          for every scenario.




                                                                             Natural dialogue-based interaction,
                                                                             making it an efficient and
                                                                             convenient tool



      6     Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• https://consumer.huawei.com/en/emui/celia/
Celia – Simplify Your Daily Routines
             Wherever you are and whatever you are doing, with the help of Celia, you can get your everyday
             tasks done quickly and effortlessly. Be productive and enjoy your day!




 7   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Celia – Be Fun, Be Smart
                     Celia makes entertainment easier as well. Quickly find items you want to buy, play your
                     favourite videos and control your music without picking up the phone. Relax and have fun!




 8   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Celia – Your Perfect Travel Companion
      Celia is also the travel assistant you are looking for. Ask Celia to translate your menu, plan your day, take photos
      for you and more. Celia is always there to meet your needs.




 9   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1. Voice Assistants

      2. Smart Homes

      3. Intelligent Vehicles

      4. Intelligent Recommendation

      5. Intelligent Robots

      6. AI4Science



10   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
 Smart Home
  ⚫    The smart home seamlessly blends modern
       technology with home life, redefining our
       personal spaces with an elevated lifestyle of
       convenience.
  ⚫    Through highly advanced IoT, algorithms, and
       big data analytics, smart homes connect a
       variety of devices into one automated and
       tailored intelligent ecosystem, bringing users
       with convenience, comfort, and security.




      11   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• https://3ms.huawei.com/km/static/image/detail.html?fid=66109
Smart Home – Making Your Life Easier
⚫    AI connects home appliances to create an intelligent ecosystem
    When you step into your home, warm lights fade in from the hallway
    to the living room. The intelligent environment control system
    automatically adjusts the ambient temperature, humidity, and air
    quality to suit your preferences. Let the home take care of itself, and
    relax after a long day.

Awaken the entire house in the
flick of a switch




                                                                                                          Lighting up your way


                                                                              At night, corridor lights automatically switch on to match your
                                                                              path, without a need of manual control.


    12   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Smart Home - Making Your Life More Comfortable
      Bask in the
       sunshine




                                              During the day, sunshades are controlled in groups for adjusting
                                              light intensity, making sure rooms are filled with soft light.



 13     Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Rest Assured at Home and Away
                               Cameras automatically switch on
                               each time you leave your front door,
 AI 3D recognition
                               allowing you to keep an eye on
                               things while out and about. Should
                               somebody break in, they will trip the
                               alarms instantly.




  14    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1. Voice Assistants

      2. Smart Homes

      3. Intelligent Vehicles

      4. Intelligent Recommendation

      5. Intelligent Robots

      6. AI4Science



15   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Qiankun Intelligent Driving
                  QianKun ADS                                                 Qiankun Intelligent Driving                                    Intelligent computing platform
                                                                                      Convergent perception
 With powerful identification and processing                                                                                          Functioning as the "brain" of an intelligent vehicle,
 capabilities, Qiankun ADS 3.0 reaches an                                                                                             the intelligent driving computing platform has
 identification rate of 99.9% for unusually shaped                      As the "eye" of an intelligent vehicle, sensors are a core
                                                                                                                                      powerful performance and can receive complex
 obstacles. It can accurately identify whitelisted                      component of an intelligent driving system. They can
                                                                                                                                      road condition information from dozens of sensors
 obstacles such as humans and vehicles, as well as                      include laser radars, millimeter-wave radars, and
                                                                                                                                      around the vehicle in real time. Being responsive,
 unusually shaped obstacles like cones, water-                          cameras. With data from multiple sensors merged,
                                                                                                                                      it enables the intelligent driving algorithm to
 weighted traffic barriers, soil piles, and stones and                  objects can be detected in reliable, accurate, and
                                                                                                                                      perform inference and calculation on complex
 gravel.                                                                robust way, providing all-scenario, all-condition, and all-
                                                                                                                                      road condition information and quickly decide
                                                                        weather protection.
                                                                                                                                      upon how to drive. Being stable and reliable, it can
                                                                                                                                      run for a long time, which can help reduce a
                                                                                                                                      driver's fatigue when going long distances. This all
                                                                                                                                      combines for a relaxing and comfortable travel
                                                                                                                                      experience.




 16    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
HarmonyOS Cockpit
⚫    The HarmonyOS automotive operating system redefines the intelligent cockpit. Celia's voice
     and visual capabilities make travel smarter. The smart OS links people, audio systems, and
     devices. Hundreds of automotive applications and in-vehicle audio deliver a new mobile
     entertainment experience.




    17   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
     Contents

      1. Voice Assistants

      2. Smart Homes

      3. Intelligent Vehicles

      4. Intelligent Recommendation

      5. Intelligent Robots

      6. AI4Science



18   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Intelligent Recommendation
⚫    Intelligent recommendation is a recommender system service built based on AI. AI-powered recommendation can automatically integrate big data
     and continuously gain insights into end users through data analysis and filtering, empowering enterprises to develop into data-driven decision-making
     organizations.

⚫    Knowledge graphs are knowledge bases used in intelligent recommender systems. They are essentially structured networks that store relationships
     between entities. They contain a large amount of background information about target objects and relationships between objects in recommendation
     systems. Knowledge graphs provide precise profiles of target objects, such as user behavior, interests, and requirements, to implement accurate
     matching and targeted recommendation, achieving scenario- and task-specific personalized recommendation. This close relationship enables
     knowledge graphs to shine in intelligent recommendation.




    19   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Case Study
  ⚫    As shown in the following figure, a knowledge graph provides different types of relationship links, introducing more
       semantic relationships to items. This helps diverge recommendation results, avoid recommendation limitations, and
       discover user interests at a deeper level. This user may also like the following movies: Days of Being Wild, The Last
       Emperor, and Caught in the Web. In addition, the graph can connect users' historical records and recommendation
       results to improve their satisfaction and acceptance of recommendation results and enhance their trust in the
       recommender system.
                                                                                                               Leading
                                                                                               Leslie Cheung    actor
                                                                              Leading                                     Days of Being
                                                                                                Kwok Wing                     Wild
                                                                               actor

                                             Like                                       Genre Historical        Genre
                                                                Farewell My                                                 The Last
                                                                 Concubine                        film                      Emperor

                                                                                                 Chen          Director    Caught in
                                                                               Director
                                                                                                 Kaige                     the Web

      20   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• In addition, as a type of effective auxiliary information in hybrid recommender systems,
  knowledge graphs can effectively resolve a range of key problems regarding data
   sparseness, cold start, and recommendation diversity.
     Contents

      1. Voice Assistants

      2. Smart Homes

      3. Intelligent Vehicles

      4. Intelligent Recommendation

      5. Intelligent Robots

      6. AI4Science



21   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Intelligent Robots
⚫    Humanoid robots are designed to have human-like forms and functions, including sensory
     perception and cognition.
⚫    They will likely become the most valuable carriers of embodied AI. Combined with rapidly
     developing general artificial intelligence and foundation models, humanoid robots will enable
     machines to interoperate and interact with the environments in a more intuitive and intelligent
     manner. They will be able to perform a wide variety of complex tasks just like humans.




    22   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  Robots Understand Instructions and Things
                                                                          The Vision-Language-Action model can significantly improve a robot's generalization capability
                                                                          for new objects. It can interpret commands that do not exist in the robot's training data, for
                                                                          example, placing an object on a specified number or icon. It can also perform basic inference in
                                                                          response to user commands, like picking up the smallest or largest object, or the one closest to a
                                                                          specified object.




   Vision-language models trained on massive
   Internet data are directly incorporated into
   end-to-end robotic control, and such models
   are referred to as vision-language-action
   models (VLAs).


                                                                                  RT-2: Vision-Language-Action Models TransferWeb Knowledge to Robotic Control--DeepMind

    23   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• DeepMind explores how to incorporate vision-language models trained on massive Internet
  data directly into end-to-end robotic control for improving generalization and implementing
   unexpected semantic inference. We aim to enable an end-to-end trained single model to
   learn to map the information observed by the robot to actions, while retaining the
   advantages of massive pre-training on language and vision-language data. To this end, we
   propose joint fine-tuning of state-of-the-art vision-language models, including robot
   trajectory data and massive Internet vision-language tasks (for example, visual Q&A). Unlike
   other practices, we decide to achieve this objective by using a simple and general approach.
   To incorporate natural language responses and robot actions into the same format, we
   represent the actions as text labels and add them directly into the training set of the model
   in the same way as natural language labels. Such model is called a Vision-Language-Action
   Model (VLA) and instantiated as RT-2. According to our extensive evaluations (6000
   evaluation trials), efficient robot strategies were generated and RT-2 acquired a series of
   unanticipated capabilities from massive Internet training. To be specific, this can
   significantly improve a robot's generalization capability for new objects, interpret
   commands that do not exist in the robot's training data (for example, placing an object on a
   specified number or icon), and perform basic inference in response to user commands (for
   example, picking up the smallest or largest object, or the one closest to a specified object).
  Robots Understand Things Like Human

   0. Different
   mugs, some                                                                                                                      1. Give an
   observed by                                                                                                                     instruction
   the robot,                                                                                                                      for a mug
   others not.                                                                                                                     observed by
                                                                                                                                   the robot.



                                                                    RDT-1B: Diffusion Foundation Model for Bimanual Manipulation


    2. Give an                                                                                                                     3. Give an
    instruction                                                                                                                    instruction
    for mug 1                                                                                                                      for mug 2
    not yet                                                                                                                        not yet
    observed by                                                                                                                    observed by
    the robot.                                                                                                                     the robot.



    24   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• https://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.07864

• https://rdt-robotics.github.io/rdt-robotics/
     Contents

      1. Voice Assistants

      2. Smart Homes

      3. Intelligent Vehicles

      4. Intelligent Recommendation

      5. Intelligent Robots

      6. AI4Science



25   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
  The Power of AI in Science




                                                                          On October 9, 2024, the Royal Swedish Academy of
         On October 8, 2024, the Royal Swedish Academy of
                                                                          Sciences announced that the Nobel Prize in Chemistry
         Sciences announced that the Nobel Prize in Physics
                                                                          2024 would be awarded to David Baker for his
         2024 would be awarded to John J. Hopfield and
         Geoffrey E. Hinton for their "foundational                       contributions to computational protein design, and to
                                                                          Demis Hassabis and John M. Jumper for their contributions
         discoveries and inventions that enable machine
                                                                          to protein structure prediction using AlphaFold2, an AI
         learning with artificial neural networks".
                                                                          model developed by them.



    26   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• The Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded to American scientist John Hopfield and Canadian
  scientist Geoffrey Hinton for their "foundational discoveries and inventions that enable
   machine learning with artificial neural networks". The work of these two pioneers in AI has
   laid a foundation for the development of deep learning and neural networks, and plays a
   crucial role in the booming development of AI.

• Half of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to American scientist David Baker for his
  contribution to computational protein design, while British scientist Demis Hassabis and
  American scientist John Jumper shared the other half for their achievements in protein
  structure prediction. AlphaFold2, an AI model developed by Hassabis and Jumper, has
  solved a 50-year-old problem by predicting the complex structures of approximately 200
  million known proteins. It has been used by over 2 million people worldwide and holds
  revolutionary significance in fields like drug R&D.

• The awarding of these prizes reflects a new trend in scientific research: AI, as a force that
  cannot be ignored, is driving a paradigm shift in scientific research. In fields such as physics,
  chemistry, biology, and medicine, AI has become an important tool for solving long-
  standing complex scientific problems. It has established a paradigm theoretically capable of
  solving all scientific problems: starting from practical problems, transforming them into
  input data that AI can process, and then using deep learning networks to ultimately output
  results. Many scientists believe that AI will continuously push scientific research beyond
  traditional frameworks, achieving more profound and broader innovations.
AI + Quantum Mechanics
                                 FermiNet (DeepMind, 2024)                                    LapNet (Peking University and ByteDance, 2024)

FermiNet is a neural network architecture proposed by DeepMind. It              LapNet is a deep learning architecture developed by ByteDance and
supports a parameterized wave function representation method and can            Peking University for neural network-based variational Monte Carlo (NN-
efficiently process multi-electron quantum systems, improving the               VMC). The team has designed a forward Laplacian computing framework
accuracy and efficiency of electronic structure calculations. FermiNet          to calculate the Laplacian related to the neural network through an
calculates the energy of atoms and molecules, and still captures 97% of         effective forward propagation process (which is a bottleneck of NN-VMC).
the relevant energy in a molecular system consisting of 30 electrons of         LapNet can achieve significant acceleration, extending the applicability of
Bicyclobutane.                                                                  NN-VMC to larger systems.




      David Pfau, et.al. Accurate computation of quantum excited states with   Ruichen Li, et.al. A computational framework for neural network based variational
      neural networks. Science, 2024                                           Monte Carlo with Forward Laplacian. Nature M. I., 2024
 27    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
AI + Material Science
                     GNoME (DeepMind and Nature, 2023)
The GNoME tool launched by DeepMind has discovered 2.2 million types of new
crystals, among which 380,000 crystals with stable structures are expected to be
synthesized. This may drive technological transformations in next-generation batteries
and superconductors. GNoME uses a graph neural network (GNN) model to efficiently
predict the crystal structure and stability of materials, greatly accelerating the discovery
of new materials. Compared with traditional experimental methods, AI models can
predict millions of materials in a short time, shortening the research period and
significantly saving experimental costs.                                                           AmilMerchant et al. Scaling deep learning for materials discovery, Nature (2023)


                                                                                                                        MatterGen (Microsoft, 2024)
                                                                                               MatterGen is a new generative model developed by Microsoft Research to design
                                                                                               inorganic materials with specific properties. MatterGen can generate stable and diverse
                                                                                               crystal structures, and refine atomic types, coordinates, and periodic lattices through a
                                                                                               new diffusion-based generation process. The model can be fine-tuned based on specific
                                                                                               property requirements to generate new materials that meet multiple property
                                                                                               constraints, such as chemical composition, symmetry, and mechanical, electronic, and
                                                                                               magnetic properties, for directional material design.
    Tian Xie et al. MatterGen: a generative model for inorganic materials design. (2024)


   28    Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
AI + Molecular Dynamics
                                                                       DeePMD (DP Technology, 2023)
DeePMD-kit is a deep learning package with great potential developed by DP Technology. It integrates first-principles modeling, data-
driven methods represented by machine learning, and high-performance computing to process ultra-large-scale molecular dynamics
problems with the precision of first principles. DeePMD-kit can significantly improve computing efficiency while improving simulation
precision, resolving the contradiction between precision and computing volume in traditional simulation methods.




                                                           Weinan E, et. al. DeePMD kit v2: A software package for deep potential models. 2023


 29   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
         Quiz

          1.       List some typical AI applications.




    30   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.




• Smart speaker, text-to-image APP, and the like
     Summary

      ⚫     This chapter describes how AI reshapes our lives, as well as AI applications in fields
            such as meteorology and robotics.




31   Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Thank you.   把数字世界带入每个人、每个家庭、
             每个组织，构建万物互联的智能世界。
             Bring digital to every person, home, and
             organization for a fully connected,
             intelligent world.

             Copyright © Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

             The information in this document may contain predictive
             statements including, without limitation, statements regarding
             the future financial and operating results, future product
             portfolio, new technology, etc. There are a number of factors that could
             cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those
             expressed or implied in the predictive statements. Therefore, such
             information is provided for reference purpose only and constitutes
             neither an offer nor an acceptance. Huawei may change the information
             at any time without notice.
